It's finally time to add some textures
and shaders to this character and turn
this gray model into something vibrant.
We'll paint a basic texture for the
face, add textures and shaders to the
eyes, and transform these bulky hair
shapes into fine hair strands. So,
welcome back everyone. This is Ram from
Craftsmind Studio, and you're watching
chapter number nine of the animated
character creation series. for the
premium version of this course which
includes 10 bonus chapters, project
files, and other useful things. Check
out the details, hotkeys, PDF, and more
in the description. Let's dive right in.
Now before we jump into today's session,
there's an important update to discuss.
With each Blender version, we anticipate
new updates and the recent release of
version 4.0 is no exception. This update
has brought about several enhancement
across the different aspects of Blender.
So including interface improvements,
rigging layers, snapping, node tools and
few advancement in graph editors. So
these updates are scattered in all parts
of the blender. So we'll try and use
these updates as much as possible
whichever fall in our uh workflow and
process and integrate these updates into
our workflow in the later rigging
chapters as well. But one specific
update directly impacting today's
session is related to the principal BSDF
node. When you access this node, you'll
notice the change in the interface. They
are now collapsible enhancing
organization. You have much more room to
organize your nodes. and with a bit of
uh change in the order in how these
properties appear. So there's a bit of
shuffling going on and there's also an
overall update in how this node operates
improving the quality of output. So
specifically Sheen produces now much
more natural and good-looking results.
Now this chapter and the next one was
recorded using experimental version
during the development of 4.0. As a
result, the node version featured in the
video is from the previous LTS release.
It's essential to clarify that despite
this, there won't be any impact on the
workflow. So, we will continue our
session with the videos recorded in the
LTS version. And towards the end of each
video, we will revisit all our shaders
and open them in version 4.0. In Blender
4.0, we'll utilize the reworked sheen
effect on few of the clothing items. And
it's important to note that if you are
already using Blender 4.0, there's no
need to go back to the older version.
you can seamlessly follow the tutorial
in whichever version you're using
whether it's LTS 4.0. So let me just
take you through few of these changes
now. Now to demonstrate few of these
changes I have this file with a simple
cube. It's actually the same file which
I have opened in the previous versions
of Blender 3.6 and this one is using
4.0. So from here you can see this is
version 4.0. As you can see here, this
is the principal BSDF that we are used
to and it's still being used in LTS
version. But right here in 4.0, this
looks much more compact. But as you
might have already noticed that the
properties which are mentioned right
here remains the same. There is a base
color in both of these. There's metallic
right here, metallic right here as well.
Roughness, sheen, alpha, and everything
is listed here as well. But the
interface is slightly different. Instead
of a huge list right here, all of these
subproperties are divided into several
categories like specular which is right
here under the collapsible menu. So if
you expand this, this gives you all the
properties related to subsurface. So
right here subsurface radius, subsurface
IUR, subsurface anistrophe, all those
things are listed under the subsurface
category. Similarly, properties related
to specular are mentioned under the
specular collapsible menu.
Then we have transmission and
transmission roughness which is listed
here. Now the roughness of transmission
is being controlled by the overall
roughness here. This property is removed
from uh new principle BSDF. And then we
have sheen which is uh sheen tint, sheen
weight which is listed in the sheen menu
here. And the clear code which is
mentioned here is now called code. So if
you expand all of these you'll see we
have exactly the same thing but the
order is slightly different. So when
you're working with PBR textures and
everything it's much more convenient now
to plug all those PBR textures like
metallic roughness IU and alpha and
normal. Those main properties are found
right here. And also collapsible nodes
give you much more room to organize your
nodes. Similar thing is being followed
in the geometry node as well. Now other
than the interface few things have been
removed like I mentioned under the
transmission roughness is removed which
can be controlled with the overall
roughness right here. Similarly
subsurface color is removed as well. So
instead of having to use different color
for subsurface you can simply use a
color here and the same color will be
used for the subsurface as well. So you
don't need to copy the same color at the
both properties. Subsurface can use the
base color itself. Now this file right
here is the exact copy of this file. In
fact, you'll see whatever changes I'll
make here will update right here as
well. I'm just going to render this in
cycle.
If I change the base color and save this
file,
then you'll see once I refresh the file,
we have the base color changed here and
it renders exactly the same. Similarly,
if I bring a texture, let's say noise
texture, and plug it into specular right
here and save the file,
Then the same will be plugged into the
specular section on the IUR level. So if
you need to use any specular texture,
you can plug that into under the
specular IUR level. And now if I bring
bump node
and try to use the same texture here.
Now this bump node goes under the
normals here. Now right here as well
under the code you have normals. But
don't confuse it with this. This is a
normal for the clear coat. The main
normal which you need which which was
right here is now located at the top of
the node. So if if I refresh the file
you'll see this normal now goes right
here right under the main four
properties. Now let me disconnect all of
these.
Now if I bring in some of this
subsurface value let's say 0.5 then this
is the result I get. Now let's say if I
use green color here then I I need to
copy the same color right here as well.
So to do this in the new 4.0 version
node new principle BSDF I need to go to
the subsurface
and enable the weight all the way to
one. Now this makes it a subsurface
material. Now right here we only had one
parameter. Now here you'll see this main
subsurface parameter is divided into two
of these. One is the weight which
decides whether or not it's a subsurface
material and the second thing is scale
of subsurface. From here you can tweak
how farther deep the object captures the
light. The scale of the subsurface. Now
if I save this file you'll see right
here I have 0.5 in the subsurface. If I
revert this, let's expand the subsurface
menu. And here you'll see subsurface
weight is all the way to one and the
scale is set to 0.5. And that's all you
need to take care of. All right. So if
you are making some subsurface material,
let's say for skin shader or something,
just bring it all the way to one. And
whatever value I'm inputting in the
subsurface, use the same value in the
scale of the subsurface. All right?
which I will also be mentioning in few
of the annotations in the video later
on. This is all you need to keep in mind
while you are following this tutorial.
And I'm pretty sure this might would
seem pretty obvious. I didn't actually
have to explain all of this but few of
the beginners who are actually new to
Blender, those who needed a bit bit of
explanation what exactly changed. So now
we are going to continue using this node
in our tutorial and once we are done we
are going to open our main files in
Blender version 4.0 O just to give you a
run through and then we are going to use
sheen on few of the cloth objects which
have been reworked and gives much better
results. For instance, if I disable
subsurface all the way, you can see if I
bring in sheen here, it doesn't show
much of the effect.
But right here in 4.0,
you can clearly see the difference.
I think to demonstrate this, I'll bring
a slightly rounder object.
Now you should clearly be able to see
here sheen to me it doesn't actually
make any of the difference to my shader.
But right here in 4.0
it's much more evident and you can also
control the color of the sheen. So this
might be helpful for our cloth items in
the characters model. Other than that
rest everything remains the same. So
let's continue building on our
characters uh shaders and textures and
if you have any query feel free to jump
on discord or discuss it in the comment
section. So we are back to our blender
file and uh this is where we had left
off in the previous chapter. So before
proceeding further one thing to keep in
mind is that to set the right scale for
the character for whatever scale you are
going for in your project just cross
check if everything is in line before
proceeding further. So maybe there could
be hair dynamics or the shaders and
things like these could change if you
later on uh decide to change the scale
of the character. So just go to the side
properties and uh select the character's
body and uh accordingly just check the
dimensions of the character and if you'd
like to scale things up and down just do
that before proceeding further. All
right. So right now it's showing me 3.37
m. If you'd like you can just select
everything right here. Just scale it
down. So if you're going for something
realistic then this should be the right
scale for you. All right. So once you're
done just Ctrl A and uh apply scale.
That's it. So now the scale of
everything is one right here. Just save
your file. So I'm going to start with
the character's body first. Just going
to isolate this with a forward slash on
number pad. So we already have a body
shader that we had made during previous
chapter UV section. So right here I have
UDIMS. If you go to the UV editor,
you'll see if I go to the edit mode, we
have the UVs here. All right. So, let's
go back to the shader editor. First
things first, I just want a little bit
of uh subsurface scattering for this
character. So, if I disable the texture
for now, I'm going to leave rest
everything as it is. Just wanted a
little bit of subsurface scattering. And
uh change this to random walk. So, this
is the base material for our character.
If I hit the render preview, just make
sure you are using cycles render.
All right. So, at this moment, we don't
have much to be seen on this character.
So, so let's first work on the texture
that we have. I'm going to get into
texture paint mode and then jump to
active tool properties right here.
In the texture paint mode, I'm simply
going to fill a skin color in this. So,
something like this. and then take the
fill tool from the toolbar on the side
and just click once on your character
like this. So now if you go to the UV
editor, you'll see it's filling the
color on the entire UV map. Now every
time you do any changes, you'll have to
save the textures right here. Right
after you have made some progress in
texturing, just make sure to save your
UDI's textures, whatever changes you
have made. Otherwise, it's not going to
show up in the render. Once that is
done, pick slightly more darker like red
color or something.
Now I'm going to pick draw tool from
here for brush. Now with this color
selected, I'm going to draw a stroke
here. So in case if you don't see this
stroke, just cross check your
properties. Just make sure there's
nothing in the texture. The stroke type
is set to space and spacing is set to
10%. If the spacing is too much, then
this is going to create gaps in between
the strokes. All right. Now I'm just
going to paint a few patches on the
skin. Going to reduce the strength right
here. And enable the symmetry on the
X-axis. And then paint a few patches
right here.
Very light patches. A few around cheek
right here.
A little bit on the lips. I'm keeping
the brush light. I mean, I can keep
painting on top of this and make it
darker, but it's really hard to blend a
darker stroke. So let's say if I paint
like this, then I'll have to blend it.
That takes a lot of time.
So that's why I'm keeping it lighter
so that there's a gradation everywhere
like this. A few patches on the nose
right here. I hope you can see it.
Then I'm going to paint a bit of circle
around here. This is not really accurate
to actual human skin. So I just wanted
to show that skin have some uh thickness
and there's a presence of blood in
instead of everything having a flat
shade
and this character is of fair
complexion. So it makes sense if we see
few red areas kids have softer skin. So
I think we are not too off even if
anatomically it's not correct.
And if you're working on really low
configuration, I would suggest that you
keep your textures to limited. And
honestly, I think since we are not
really creating some crisp and
highdetailed texture, I could have used
low resolution texture like 2K because
this is really cartoony and simple
character. We won't be making any
wrinkles or high detailed bump on the
skin pores and all that. Just pay
attention to your resources. And uh if
you're struggling to paint, just reduce
the texture size. Just go to the UV
editor and save your texture.
If you are having difficulty reaching to
certain parts and let's say if we can
see this here inside the mouth we are
having difficulty painting. So what you
can do is change this to image editor
and in image editor right here you can
see view we are viewing the image
instead change this to paint. Then you
have access to all these tools right
here as well. So I'm just going to
reduce a brush size. If you're wondering
what are the short keys for reducing the
brush size, increase and decrease. It's
same as Photoshop. Square brackets up
and down.
So just paint a few patches here.
If you want, you can just fill this
entire area. Inside of the mouth is red.
So this makes sense.
And uh inside the nostrils, you can also
paint.
So going back to the orthographic view.
Hit five on the number pad. And all the
short commands can be seen in the PDF in
the description as well.
We're just going to reden these parts.
If I increase the strength,
bigger strokes take time to register and
uh that's fine.
Now let's go to the shader editor and uh
I'm going to plug the same image in
subsurface color.
Overall it's working fine but I feel
there could be more redness.
Now there are few other parameters you
can uh consider changing if you want to
make the skin softer. You have these
radius parameters for subsurface. Now
I'll paint a little more on this
texture.
So I'll stop talking and just do a bit
of quick jog.
So I think this is enough. So if you
have multiple uh let's say if you're
painting two colors, one in the for
foreground color, one in the background
color and you can switch these bit by
pressing X just like Photoshop. So, I'm
just switching these and uh blending
colors right here. Now, going to save
the file. Just paint a few more here
like this. I'm just going to reduce the
brush size. Change the mode to darken or
multiply. And in the brush properties,
you can either access these properties
from here or if you're working in the
full screen mode, you have these
properties here as well. Or you can have
a larger view uh from side panel.
Texture paint tool right here. So now we
have this smaller brush. In this brush,
I'm going to increase the spacing from
10% to something around 50 or something
like this. Then in the jitter amount, if
you increase this all the way to one or
two, you'll see we are getting these uh
freckles kind of thing. So going to
increase the brush size, increase the
strength and paint a few freckles.
Maybe reduce the strength.
I hope you can see it. So, it's a very
minor impression right here. So, I'm
just going to paint a little bit here.
And uh then
reduce the jitter, reduce the spacing
back to 10.
You can also change the stroke method
from space to anchored.
And uh now if you increase the strength,
you can create few points like this.
So if you have certain texture in that
case that helps. Right now I'm going to
just manually uh increase and decrease
the brush size. Maybe few larger dots
right here
and few smaller dots.
If you're working with a brush, you can
always use the brush pressure right here
to increase and decrease the size of the
brush. By brush, I mean a stylus.
So this seems enough. I'm going to save
the file, go back to the shader editor,
and let's see what's happening in the
render.
So, I think subsurface looks a bit too
much. From
06, we can reduce it to 03.
All right. So, this looks fine. I'm
going to work on the rest of the things
and see according to the overall
appearance of the character. If anything
needs to be changed later, I'll do that.
But for for the kind of simple look I'm
going for, this is absolutely fine. Now,
anything about this, if you'd like to
tweak, just shift F, merge these by
dragging, and you can uh you can bring
hue, saturation, or uh RGB curves. And
you can tweak a certain aspect here.
Now other than the face uh these parts
the hands and a bit of knee will be
visible. Other than that everything is
under the clothes. So let's paint a few
patches here. A little bit of redness
around these areas. Now keep in mind
when I paint this whatever areas are
hiding behind some surface occluded
you'll start seeing this um paint mask.
So that's a bit of problem. Now there's
a option here uh just disable this
occlude only paint onto the faces
directly under the brush.
All right. So if you disable this the
paint is going to go through and
through. But the problem is area behind
now is not painted. So for that if you
disable back face coloring now it should
go through and through.
But then you'll start seeing these lines
right here. That's because brush is not
reaching these particular angles. There
you'll see these lines. So for that in
the fall off angle you can reduce this
to somewhere around 45 or 50 55°
something. So what will happen is
whatever is uh pointing towards the
screen only there our brush will work.
So in that case we won't be painting on
the sides like on these parts and
there's a less room for those lines to
appear.
So it's like we are avoiding to paint on
the sides.
Now the problem here is if I paint now
somewhere it's going to paint through
and through because I have disabled
these options. So just keep that in
mind. Do not try to paint uh while the
other mesh is behind it. For now, while
painting a bit of redness around the
finger, I'll use these options. Leave
the occlude and back face coloring off
and paint a few patches here.
And once that is done, I'll enable the
option again
so that I don't accidentally paint in
areas where I don't want to. Like right
here, I painted a few patches here which
appeared on the backside as well. So for
this area it's not good option. I'm
going to enable these again
and uh reduce the fall off further.
If you want, you can also paint nails
here. Uh, just going to make a bit of
suggestion about nails.
Let me just go back to the view and
you'll see. So, our character is
starting to look good. We may have to
adjust the shader a bit more.
So, just tweak the numbers a bit here in
subsurface scattering. So the scatter
radius was a bit too much because of
which it it was looking way too soft.
Just turn this down a bit. And I'm also
thinking maybe I can uh reduce the
redness a bit
with the help of this RGB curves.
So this looks fine and I think uh we can
go ahead with this. On these glasses I'm
going to create a simple shader and uh
let's call this one
glasses. And for faster preview, I'm
just going to reduce the sample a
little.
So in the shader editor, let's type
glass BSDF. Get rid of principle BSDF.
And with control shift click, you can
just connect this with the material
output. So pretty simple default glass
shader. On this glass object, I'm using
a solidify and a subdivision surface
modifier for smoother round edges. And
for the frame here, I'm just going to
select the frame
and create a new material. Call this one
frame.
Just going to use a bit of warm color
here in the base color.
And for this, I'm going to increase the
transmission all the way to one.
And leave rest everything as it is.
And if you want you can add one volume
absorption right here. And uh
let's say if you have a glass and uh you
want to fill the volume with certain
dense color. So with the help of volume
absorption you can make it appear like
solid glass.
So it's going to give you a nice solid
look for the glass.
Now for the eyes of the character, I'm
simply going to select both of these. So
we had made these uh dummy eyes for
quick visualization.
But now let's try and make a UV sphere
with the 16 segments and uh scale it
down of about the same size that we had
for the previous eye.
And now let's get rid of these two. We
won't be needing these at the center. If
you want to have quads, you can simply
select every alternate edge
and delete dissolve edges. Now, if you
apply subdivision surface,
you'll see a smoother quads at the
center as well. Shade smooth. And I'm
going to make a duplicate of this. Let
me just apply all transform.
I'll select about these many faces. Ctrl
I to invert and delete these faces.
Let me just disable the proportionate
editing. And I'm going to push these
inside and make a shape like this.
We can get rid of these center faces.
Extrude this. Scale it down. Push these
inside.
Something like this. This is for the
iris part. At the end right here, just
select the entire thing and grid fill
this. All right. And to UV the outer
area, I'm simply going to select one of
these loops, mark seam, and select
everything and unwrap in the UV editor.
This is what you should get. This is the
front side, and this is the back side.
Now, in the shader editor, let's create
a new shader and uh bring one gradient
texture.
and change this to spherical texture.
Now, if I press CtrlT on this to bring
the mapping coordinates and use our UV,
this is what you're going to get. Now,
what we need to do is align this
gradient to the front side of the eye.
So, first thing I'm going to crunch
these number down so we can start seeing
this this radial formation. Now, you'll
have to pay attention to these numbers a
little. So this is a bit tricky part. So
to avoid this, if you are having
difficulty, you can simply bring one
image texture, make a image texture and
paint a little bit of white consistent
area in the center uh for the iris mask.
Now let's see if we can make this work.
I'm simply going to drag these numbers.
So I think we are reaching the front
and then move it upwards.
And it seems like we might be able to do
it without the image texture.
Now in the main shader, use the same
thing to create a mask. Let me just hide
this area. Now we have this texture
here, but the intensity of this is uh a
bit dull. So I'm going to bring a math
node
and plug this right here. Change this to
multiply so we can make a bright patch
here.
Now let's plug this in transmission as
well.
Let's go to the render view.
Reduce the roughness
and this is what you will see. Let's
bring one simple mix color node
and give it a bit of off-white color.
Now what we need to do is mask this area
out. Simply bring a transparent material
and then bring a mix shader.
Now we can use the same thing, same
gradient for this factor.
Now all the insides are masked out. So
now here we see the iris part.
If you want to have some refractions
here, transmission here, you can simply
bring on add shader and use the another
layer of same shader here. So now you'll
see these reflections here.
For the internal part, simply create one
material, diffuse BSDF, and put it right
here. Now for the UV for iris. Simply
select everything. Press U to unwrap
project from view. And uh that should
create a decent UV for iris. I'm going
to bring one image texture.
Connect this to diffuse color. And in
this I'm going to open one uh iris
texture that I have a PNG image.
This image texture is a bit map. And uh
you can use any paint program, Critter,
Photoshop to paint this out. You can
also make it using uh Blender itself.
For that you need a quite some decent
knowledge about nodes. So at this moment
it might would be a bit difficult to
pack all that information within this
modeling tutorial and uh it'll be it
might be a bit too much of information.
So maybe we can discuss nodes in some
other tutorials. But your end goal is to
have a bit of texture for iris part. And
you can do that in many ways.
I'm going to fix these UVs a bit
with proportionate editing. Scale these
up
like this. Now let's see what's going on
here.
Now if you want you can select both of
these press Ctrl J to combine this and
then you can press Ctrl A apply location
and then when you apply mirror modifier
this would fill in for other eye on the
right
you can see the eyes on the both sides I
can adjust the eyes scale a bit in the
edit mode just going to scale it up a
bit
just check from all different views if
it's sitting in properly or not.
Yeah, I think more or less it's there.
All right. So now let's move on to the
next part which is going to be hair and
uh eye seems to be working fine. The
texture is bit stylized but uh kind of
like the gradation in this texture so
not going to bother much about it.
Just make sure eyes are resting well in
the sockets. If there's any uh
modification needed, just do that. All
right. So, I see a bit of gap here. And
uh I'll fix that. Maybe
I'm just going to make a shape key
sockets just in case if anything goes
wrong, I can always tune it up and down.
Now for the hair part, let me just
select one of the strand and I'm going
to isolate this one.
We are going to create a new material.
And in this material, let's apply one um
noise texture.
Let me just make a bit of room for
shader editor.
Now let's bring mapping coordinates with
Ctrl D. And I'm going to stretch this
texture in one of the direction. Let me
just change this to UV first.
So what I'm doing here is trying to
adjust the grains a bit. So I want these
lines to be running across the entire
hair strand.
So something like this.
Now with this node selected, let's apply
one color ramp. Now in this color ramp,
we can add multiple colors. Let me just
add a few points.
We can start with something darker shade
of brown. Then the second one could be
slightly more variation of brown. And at
the center we can have sort of a
bright color.
Just play with these color headers until
you find something uh useful.
So yeah, something like this. Let's see
how this looks in render.
This can work for our model. But uh at
this moment it looks a bit junky and not
really soft. So what I'm thinking is we
can use the same texture in the alpha
map. So if I plug this here, you'll see
there's a transparency in between. And
if I map range this,
I can make this work. So just by
controlling the levels of this texture,
I can uh control the opacity of this uh
entire hair hair strand based on the
noise texture. So it would appear as if
there are finer strands of hair. Pardon
the voice over gets a bit glitchy when
recording during rendering.
All right. So this looks nice. Actually
the model looks much more softer. Now
what if we use the same thing in the
roughness as well?
We can also use a bit of subsurface.
It's not really a perfect way, but I
just want to catch some of the
backlight, make it appear as if it's
translucent.
So, in this case, this works and u it's
not much of cheating if if it works.
So yeah, this seems much better.
Now there's one thing I wanted to
mention is that if you remember when we
were making this these hair, we had used
this profile, right? Let me just bring
it back.
So this is the profile that we had made.
But if you look at this now, this
profile is much more detailed. So what's
happening in this is basically I have
added a few more circles. If I go to the
edit mode,
if I keep adding more detail here, that
will reflect here as well. So instead of
having one strand, I was thinking we
could have few circles to detail the
profile so that in side views there will
be a break in silhouette. And if you
want to make the overall thing a bit
more dense,
you can simply select few of these
points and make a duplicate.
So now within your profile you have uh
multiple curves and uh the geometry is
not really hollow. There are few more
curves within. Because of that the
appearance will be much more denser.
Just make sure to not make it too heavy.
If you feel computer is having
performance issues, then you can always
just keep it simple. You can also adjust
the resolution of these profile curves
from here.
So let's go back to the full view. So
I'm going to select all of these curves
and then select this curve and press
Ctrl Link material. Now this will
transfer the material to rest of the
hair strands.
It seems we are pretty close. It's just
that uh it will be nice if we could see
through these hair a bit. So maybe
tweaking opacity might work.
So this looks good. I think we can go
ahead with this. With clear coat, we can
add another layer of glossiness.
So yeah, this looks good. So slowly it's
starting to at least uh look alive and
instead of gray materials everywhere, we
can uh see the character's face. It kind
of looks cute. I think it this is
turning out well. Let's spend some more
time on the rest of the things on the
clothes and everything. And uh I'm sure
once we see some more colors around it,
this will start to look much more
better, even more vibrant. Now here I
have opened the same file in LTS
version. And right here we have 4.0.
So if I select the body and this is the
shader that we have made. Now right here
in the 4.0 you can see it's the same
shader and instead of this uh subsurface
color which we had connected right here
in subsurface color since that property
is removed here without that as well
it's producing the same effect. You just
need to plug your texture into the base
color and automatically that will be
used in the subsurface as well. And then
for the subsurface radius and everything
3.06.36
and subsurface uh overall weight 063 is
now in the scale right here. And the
rest of the shaders were pretty simple.
So I'm not going to explain those
right here. Uh for the hair shader,
let's see what's going on. So pretty
much everything is same. So hope it
clears out few doubts and we'll continue
to do the same in the next chapter as
well. We are going to create shaders for
clothes and uh there we are going to
update few of our shaders in 4.0 using
uh this sheen. It creates this nice
frenel kind of effect which could be
quite useful for the clo parts and if
you want you can use some of this in
skin just for the bit of stylized look
but I think this will be more relevant
for the clothes parts. So if you have
any more doubts you can just use the
comment section or discord and hope this
helps even if you're using the previous
version or the latest version of the
blender. So that's all for now
concluding this chapter. If you want to
push your character for more realistic
look you can use detailed brushes
instead of simple colors and incorporate
additional maps. You can learn more
about this in chapter number six of
content creation series which we did a
while ago where we modeled this skull
but not now that might be too much for
you and might be distracting. So after
you have completed this course so that
you don't get distracted texturing in
detail is a whole different subject and
we can't fit everything in this series
but the basic texturing process remains
the same. So I hope this uh chapter
helped you understand how to navigate in
the texturing workspace. This process
itself might take some time to get used
to. Keep it simple for now and focus on
memorizing the process. In the next
chapter, we are going to shade the
clothes, create some vibrant shaders,
paint a few textures, and combine them
with some other downloaded PBR textures.
Jump to Discord server if you'd like to
discuss anything related to this on
channel dedicated to this series. Check
pin comment for frequently asked
questions and problems. Check
description for PDF of keyboard
shortcuts, discount coupons, and other
mentioned resources for this tutorial.
If you enjoyed this chapter, do check
out the full playlist and hope you
continue all the way till the end. Also,
consider buying the premium version and
unlock the additional chapters and
project files and bonus content which
will take you through the process of
rigging with rigify, creating a nice
walk cycle animation, creating secondary
animations using plot physics and bone
constraints and rendering your entire
project using cycles render engine.
Share your work with me on Instagram,
tag me with instacross mind and
participate in discussion on discord
channel for this course. Links are in
the description. Please give it a like
and subscribe and stay tuned for more.
Share your thoughts in the comment
section and don't forget to share it
with your colleagues and on social media
to help us reach the wider audience.
Thank you for all your support and love.
