AI can generate 3D characters, solid and
static, but can it actually create
modular character system, like different
outfits, weapons, accessories, and all
interchangeable? Sounds interesting,
right? In this video, I going to show
you my exact workflow, how I take one
concept image and turn it into full
modular character system, step-by-step.
I also going to show you a new tool that
makes this process insanely faster. It
takes one image and break it into parts
automatically. Then we going to generate
variations and turn them all into 3D
with best 3D AI available right now. And
of course, we going to bring it to
Unreal Engine and how to interchange
outfits, weapons, accessories in real
time. This is probably one of the
fastest and most practical workflow that
you can use right now. Step here, let's
start. As always, it all starts with the
idea. Luckily for me, I already
brainstormed some idea with ChatGPT and
I got something like this. So, first of
all, I'm absolutely enchanted by
Japanese culture and there's a kitsune,
you might know this white fox with
plenty of tails. We're going to take
this concept and we're going to create
some variations of top outfit, bottom
outfit. Going to create two bag
accessory and two weapons. Sounds cool?
Let's get started. One thing I did
before start is that I made cleaner
version of character sheet. And I do
have a dedicated video about it, the
link will be somewhere here. When we do
have it, we're going to jump to the next
stage. And today, I'm going to present
you one really, really cool finding.
Name is Asset Hub and these guys created
really usable tool, or I should say
workflow, putting all the best tools in
one place. Let me show you how it works.
So, let's go to workflows, create new
workflow. Let's call it hero asset,
simple, create. and now it suggests to
upload the assets. And that's exactly
what we going to need to do. We going to
upload the image that we prepared. Here
we go. Whenever we upload the image,
image better to be in A or T pose. It
works better that way. And when the
image is uploaded, uh let's press start
3D production. And it will start
processing. So, you see it already is
starting to detect pose. And this tool
works best with A or T pose characters.
Okay, we're going to give it some time.
And here you can also choose the allowed
models. This will be basically needed
for the later stage. We going to leave
on the Tripod 3.1, but maybe we going to
use Tripod P1 actually. You can change
it later. Okay, so we can see A pose
detected and it actually started to do
analysis. Analysis basically means it
actually extracted some parts that you
can see here. And I'm pretty happy with
that. We going to press confirm and
start. And voila! Instead of doing all
of that manually, prompting through
another banana, as I was usually doing,
we creating this at one click of a
button. How cool is that? I don't know.
This is absolutely must-have feature
everywhere. And these guys are first to
introduce it. So, after a while, we do
have all parts and they are amazing. Not
all of them, but that's easy to address.
So, let's say I'm not happy with the
head. I going to press reject and here I
going to drop the prompt that will
contain ears. Or you can simply also say
like fox head with ears. And that will
also work. And then press regenerate.
Other than that, I'm pretty happy with
the result. We can go accept them.
Everything cool.
Okay. Also, while we waiting for a head,
let me show you something cool what you
can do more here. You can actually take
any image, drag this line and add a node
like multi-view generation and create a
multi-view for specific asset. There's
option to select two or four multi-view.
We going going go with two for now. And
here you can see the results for a
build. How cool is that? Just one node
and you create multi-view images. You
are not happy with it, you just recreate
it. All in one place, forget about
prompting. Moreover, you can use split
images, which will basically split
already created part into some
sub-parts, like that. That might be
very, very useful if you want to create
some specific element and be flexible
how you control it. Also very useful.
Now, you can see that from my image the
katana wasn't getting generated, so you
can rerun this process, but you can also
do that easier. We can go and create
node called generate image, which is
basically nan a banana, so you don't
need to go to nan a banana from here,
which is for me already a lot of time
saved. And I going to drop the prompt I
created with GPT to extract the katana
alone and here in batch size I'll just
set it to a few more images and let's
run it. And here we go, one of the image
is exactly what I need, one image
actually failed, but that happens all
the time. Let's take this image for the
katana. When we have parts extracted,
it's time to start creating 3D models.
What we going to do is that we going to
select with shift all the parts that
we're happy with. I going to choose
outfit accessories first, then we going
to need to press this button, this cube,
which will basically create 3D
generation nodes from all of them in a
batch. For all these parts I going to
choose 3.1 just to preserve more details
on geometry and on asset hub it will not
create like millions of polygon, it will
suggest optimal amount. Let's press
generate. And here we go, it
automatically created all the nodes and
I can run them all at once. That's
amazing time save. In reality, you don't
need to create two shoes, two bracers.
This is only for demonstration, but
we'll be able to choose the best one and
use it later. All right. And we going to
do do same exactly for the head and for
the body. But, here we're going to
choose a triple P1 cuz shape of the head
and body is uh simpler and I want it to
be low poly right away. And let's review
the results. Here we have all the models
generated and the body with the head.
And I think the result is amazing. The
head is awesome and it's already low
poly. Cool. You can preview the mesh
here. Just an amazing job. There is some
problem with uh normal map, but I think
we can address that easily. Okay, here
we can preview the pants and you can see
it's not million of polygons. It's like
around 100K and we'll be able to reduce
that later. Or maybe I'll just recreate
it with P1 and see which version I like
more. If you don't know, guys, Tripo is
right now definitely the best model. It
is really cool that Asset Hub already
integrates them. By the way, there is a
full video review on my channel about
Tripo. Take a look if you missed it.
It's insane how good it is. And it's all
already available in Asset Hub as well.
So, just like that we created all the
base assets and they look quite well. We
don't need to jump to another tools. And
the next step, of course, we're going to
need to create some variations, as I
promised. So, how we're going to do
that? Like there's multiple ways to do
that. I going to basically use Nana
Banana, but I will do that right here.
Can I go uh generate image and here
we're going to drop a prompt that will
create a variation. Of course, the
prompt was created with ChatGPT, guys.
No magic, no hard skills, just explain
what you want the variation, how it
should look. And let's create a lot of
variations and choose like the best.
Okay, let's run it and here we go.
Pretty nice options and I going to
choose this one. Okay, so and from this
one we going to extract the top and
shorts, right? We can actually try to do
that with the split image and we can
also try to generate multi-view image.
Also, I going to need another weapon.
So, we going to add another node, image
generation. And here I created a prompt
that will create a sickle stylized it
fits my character. So, here you can see
the prompt preview, pretty much what GPT
gave me. Let's increase the batch size
and let's do that. So, here are the
results. Okay, we do have some cool
examples. I think I going to choose this
one. Okay, we going to take it and we
can create 3D model of it right away. We
select node image to mesh and of course
we going to choose triple 3.1 or triple
P1, up to you. And here we can see the
model. We can preview that and the
result is amazing. Result is amazing,
but there's quite a lot of polygons
because it's set to poly count adaptive.
So, we can easily fix that. How do we
address it? We press here and we choose
the poly count, let's say for this
object I think 8K will be enough. So, we
going to recreate it in 8K and after
it's done we can check take a look again
and yeah, that's exactly what we need.
8K for this asset is okay. The similar
way you can process all of the assets as
well. Okay, let's go back to where we
did a split image of our character and
here's one very interesting image that
we want. I already used it and split
image into three parts and I got exactly
what I need. I got the top and the
shorts. That will be my variations of
top and bottom. And we going to create
3D models as well. Lastly, I need a
variation for a back accessory instead
of a hat. So, we going to take a
multi-view image that we just created
for on that second variation. We going
to go and use generate image node. The
prompt says generate only a stylized
travel backpack as a standalone 3D asset
that will fit my character, blah blah
blah, instead of a hat. Always ask GPT
to help you with the prompting, it's
really good in that. And just like that
we do have the backpacks. Okay, here are
the results and I really like this one,
so we going to go and create 3D model
from it. Image to mesh, choose the right
model. We can try P1 in this case and
just run the node. All right, so it's
time to review results. Here we go and
just like that we created all needed
parts, guys, in one place. Look how cool
is that. Like we can see all the
process, we can go back, we can iterate.
Everything is connected and logical. I
think it's quite amazing tool. And if
you guys want to try this amazing tool,
the link and all the details is of
course in the description. When that's
done, it's time to download all the
assets and bring them to Blender. Okay,
so now it's time to cook in Blender. So
first thing first, we going to assemble
body. That will be our base. So let's
drop head, body, and bracers to the
Blender. So I just going to drag and
drop them and here we are. Of course it
makes sense to name them properly to not
be confused. And let's actually start
positioning them. So if you watch my
previous video, you already know that
there are few things that you always
need to do is to merge vertices by
distance, especially if you exported it
as GLP. So basically, select all mesh,
go edit mode, press M on the keyboard,
and choose by distance. Another thing
might be is to fix the shading. So you
can see it's sort of like flat shaded.
We're going to go add modifier called
normals weighted normal. And that will
going to fix it. And we're going to
choose copy to selected basically to add
the same modifier for all of the
objects. Now we can apply modifier by
control A. And let's do some
positioning. So I do use some hotkeys,
but you can do the same thing exactly
with the transforms here. I of course
have a video explaining the bare minimum
that you need to know about controls in
Blender to be able to do exact same
thing in no time. Okay, when the objects
are positioned, we might need to use
sculpt modes. And there is like an
amazing elastic grab brush, Uh, is
absolutely amazing. You just grab some
parts and extend. Helps to align
objects. We're going to use it pretty
much all the time today. And you can see
like the things getting better and
better. I also spot some issue with
roughness map. So, I going to disable
roughness map and set it to be more
rough called mate.
Okay. Then of course, we going to go
select all objects, press Ctrl A and
select rotation, scale, or even all
transforms. We will basically say that
this current position is the new
original position. Now we can add mirror
modifier, choose Y axis, and mirror
object as a body. And here we go, we
already have mirrored our bracer. So,
pretty much we are happy. I going to go
remove some polygons that are
intersecting on the head. I going to
select them with hot keys or you can
select them otherwise. Boom, removed.
And just so we don't have some hidden
stuff. And again, in sculpt mode using
the same elastic grab, just adjust the
shape a little bit. When that's done,
let's join all objects by selecting them
and pressing Ctrl J. And that will be
our new object called body. Let's also
position it at above the ground. And now
first step here is done. And guys,
before we continue, I really want to ask
to like and subscribe to my channel. Cuz
more 80% of viewers are watching without
subscription. Please press that button
so more people can watch these amazing
tutorials. And I have more motivation.
Now it's time to add all the assets to
the scene and start aligning them. So,
this will be pretty much exactly the
same process. So, always remember a few
things that you need to do. Usually you
going to need to fix shading. Like you
can do that with shade out the smooth or
weighted normals and stuff like that.
When that fix it, if you import as GLB,
don't forget to go and merge vertices.
You go in edit mode, merge vertices,
merge by distance. Usually with default
settings. And lastly, when you position
the object correctly, press control A on
the object and apply rotation and scale
at least or maybe apply all the
rotations. And also, if you want to work
with mirror modifier or you want correct
export to any other software, you might
need to set the origin to 3D cursor,
which basically located in world origin,
and it will make sure that all objects
are showed the same way in Unreal Engine
or we're going to use AccuRig for
rigging, make sure you follow all these
simple steps. And of course, there's
more videos on my channel explaining
this in more details. So, as you can
see, I'm just using sculpting tool
adjust the shape. There is a brush
called elastic grab, one of my favorite.
You just basically drag it as you do it
in real life and fix the alignment. How
cool is that? There's also like clay
brush that you can like add or remove a
little bit volume. Always with most of
the brushes, you can press control and
while holding control, it will be
inversed. You cannot inverse elastic
grab, it basically moves mesh where you
move it. And so, just like that, I
basically adjusted every part that we
created. Luckily for me, most of them
was fitting almost perfect, so I didn't
need to spend too much time. I had a bit
troubles with shorts, but that all also
manageable. Let's also position weapons
in right place and of course, we're
going to need to position the variations
of top and bottom outfits, as well as
back accessories, such as hat, backpack,
and also later we're going to need tail,
of course. This whole step all together
took me around 20 minutes of real time.
The next step will be is to optimize our
mesh a little bit. So, what I want to
show you is that in game usually, if
there is a parts that are covered and
never seen, like let's say we do have
shorts and long pants and there will be
a part of legs that will never be shown.
So, we can actually remove it. So, in my
case, I will remove this part under the
pants and we can technically remove this
part under the scarf cuz it will always
be covered. It's not only optimization
issue, it's also that you'll have less
problems with rigging. Imagine like the
knee will never go through the pants
because there is no knee physically
there. But, it will look the same.
However, if you intend to show him
without shorts or pants, it is of course
making sense to keep it. So, the logic
here is simple. I'll just remove the
polygons that are covered. So, here is
the results. You can of course cut it
more nicely, but we're not going to
spend more time on this. This is just an
example. All right, now it's time to
actually do a rigging. So, many people
think that you can rig one object at
once, but you actually not. You can rig
as much as object as you want or the
limit of the software. So, in my case,
we're going to export all objects that
needs to be rigged except rigid object.
What is the rigid object? This is a
katana, a seat, a hat. Why? Because
katana are not moving according to the
leg. It's a rigid object that is usually
stick to one point, to belt for example.
Same as hat, we can keep backpack
because backpack is not rigid. Okay,
let's select all the parts and we're
going to export it as FBX. Here in
export setting, choose selected objects
only and in armature, don't forget to
uncheck add leaf bones just in case for
later. Now, we're going to go to
AccuRIG, which is a free software, but
some of the advanced asset packs like
animation packs are paid here. So, I
think that's a fair model. You are not
forced to buy them. You'll have a basic
animation pack available after you rig
the character. And you can map another
animation for the skeleton in Unreal
Engine for example. So, the process here
is simple. This software will guide you
through all the steps. Put the character
in the right pose, set the points where
they should be. There are more than in
Mixamo, so it's like more accurate. You
set the points for the body, then you do
same thing for the hands and riggings.
When it's rigged, you can calibrate it.
This is quite important step. Sometimes,
you need to adjust bones so their
movement look natural. Especially, it is
valid for characters that might have fat
belly or non-standard proportions. So,
here you can choose the pose and adjust
the bone movement a little bit until it
look natural. So, this is exactly what I
did and we have nicer look. When that's
done, there is one cool thing here that
will save us time. That we can actually
export it as Unreal Engine skeleton.
That's exactly what we want. Let's
export it as FBX, then continue in
Blender. Okay, now we do have an
armature and this is the time to add
last pieces like tail and rigid
accessories. So, behind the scene, I
also generated tail cuz I forgot to make
it. And here's how the process look.
We'll basically need to add this tail to
the armature. And here I show you some
advanced technique. I'll add bones to
this tail and then attach these bones to
a base armature. Those will not be
animated, but we going to animate them
in Unreal Engine with physics. So, we
going to not focus on this part in this
tutorial. This is an extra. You might
not have a character with tail, but let
me know if you want more details on
that. For now, it's going to be time
lapse so we save time for another stuff
to not make this video too long. So, the
final result of this step is that tail
connected and each tail has its own
bones. They are not animated yet. They
are static. They just connected to one
bone of main skeleton. That's exactly
what we need to set the physics. But one
thing that you need to know is how to
add a static objects like rigid one. So,
here's the simplest way to do that.
First of all, make sure all transforms
are applied with control A rotation
scale transform all transformation all
of that. Now with shift I selected all
objects and then I selected the
armature. We're going to press control P
and choose with empty groups. That will
basically parent all these objects to
armature but with no weights assigned.
That's cool because now we can go to
data tab and here in vertex groups we
going to need to find pelvis. That's the
central bone that's usually represent
the base of a character. You see that
katana is now selected and then I can go
to weight paint. Here we're going to
choose gradient paint and we'll just
need to make sure this katana will be
now red. So, what's happening right now?
I selected pelvis bone and I assigning
like 100% weight to that bone of the
katana which means that katana will 100%
follow the pelvis movement. So, you can
see if I press on any other bone it will
be blue which means zero. Same exact
thing we're going to need to do for sit.
Okay, make it red but for the hat we're
going to need to choose another bone.
First of all, let's align it a little
bit better. Make sure all
transformations are applied and here
we're going to choose neck 01 bone.
Apply the weight with gradient painting.
And now if we go to the pose mode and
try to move this neck one you can see
how it works, right? So, like whenever
neck is moving on head is following neck
exactly. And same will happen with four
pelvis. If we move the character moves,
weapons follows. Now we're finally ready
to move to Unreal Engine. What I going
to do now is I'll assign proper names to
all objects to be able to manage them in
Unreal Engine, of course. Then I going
to export them one by one by logical
parts. So, if you going to use selected
objects make sure the armature and the
object on it is selected. So, object is
expert with armature. So, we're going to
export main body, backpack, we're going
to export hats, we're going to export
top outfits alone, weapons, and so
forth. Pretty much the same logic.
Technically, you can also export them
all together, but it will be a little
bit more difficult to manage in Unreal
Engine. So, here's the final list of
objects we have. Main body, two top
outfits, two bottom outfits, two
weapons, and two back accessory. And it
means it's finally time to open Unreal
Engine and create a third-person
template. Let's do that. Okay, so here
we're going to do uh some Unreal Engine
match. We're going to not go into every
detail, but of course, guys, if you want
me to go deep into this, let me know in
the comments. I maybe consider a video
how I do that. The whole thing here will
be to import the body first, and we're
going to replace default third character
to our character. How it's done? We
basically import main body first. Then,
we're going to also assign some shaders
and stuff. I use here the same toon
shader that I used in my video where I
created the whole scene. You're going to
definitely want to take a look on that
one. That's a toon shader script that
you drop it here, and it allow you to
create toon material quite easy. Okay,
so here we can preview this, and the
first thing we're going to need to
retarget animation and skeleton. So,
we're going to go find ABP many,
retarget animations, choose our main
body, and basically try to retarget
everything. Since we exported skeleton
from AccuRig, we should have everything
all fine, and we're going to need to
export all the animations. We just need
to set prefix as Fox, I think. All
right. Uh we do have all animations. So,
now we go to characters, Fox, we see all
the animations export, which is cool.
And we might see like one animations are
broken, and I figure out that you can
fix it if you go here. You can go here,
you can go to compression error
threshold, set it to zero, and then set
it to one again, and it sort of fixes.
Later, we go to find BP third person,
which is this one. You can create a
child blueprint, or you can replace it
right here. So, here in skeletal mesh
assets, we just going to select our
skeletal assets, and for animation
class, we're going to select Fox ABP
many, which we just got from
retargeting. And here's the result so
far already. So, we already have
something moving. That's the long story
short. After that, we need to start
adding the rest of the accessories. So,
we going to just import them, create
them, make sure we have the right
shader, then add all the objects on same
blueprints, basically parenting them to
main mesh. And to make sure the
animation works together, we're going to
go to main mesh to blueprints, and find
set leader pose. Drag and drop this
katana here, and set it to target. So,
basically, it will all take the
animation from main body. Same way, I
will add all the assets and connect them
in the blueprints, right? Just like
that. And if you did everything right,
we can actually preview the result and
go play around. How cool is that? And of
course, the tail is not working. That's
okay. I will add the physics to them.
This is a little bit advanced, but it
easy to learn. We'll basically go to the
skeleton, find those bones, and add a
physics to them. You going to enjoy the
time lapse, and I going to do a sip of
water.
So, it took me a while to figure out and
set the best configuration, but here we
go. Here is the result. I think it looks
really cool, guys. Guys, I think I
deserve like for it. Please hit that
button, and also subscribe to this
channel to not miss out the very cool
content that I'm doing for you, guys.
And now, how do we interchange the
assets? So, the logic here will be very
simple. We just going to drop some
assets across this scene and then we're
going to create some sort of podiums for
them. My logic is simple. Since all the
assets are already on the character, I'm
going to make some of them invisible.
There is a visibility flag on that
blueprint. And when we going to
collision to a podium or cylinder
that is near to some asset, one asset
will be set invisible and other asset
will be visible. So, this simple logic,
here's how I did that. On the character,
there's a blueprint that makes one asset
of the same group invisible if one
become visible or change the
invisibility. So, let's say we have
shorts. Maybe there is definitely a
better way to do that, but this is the
only thing came in my mind while
recording this video. And there will
also be a simple blueprint that will
detect the collision with the character.
And then we're going to change the
parts. So, that was actually a lot of
things to do. From the concept, we
extracted a lot of parts, created models
for them, created variations, all in one
place. Then we brought that in Blender,
simply aligned objects to the body, then
we rigged that in AccuRig. Well, rigid
objects we assigned it right in Blender
since they need to be attached to one
bone only. Then we set it in Unreal
Engine, applied toon shader, retarget
animations for our character, and
replaced a default character with our
character in a base blueprint. And then
we did simple logic on collision with
some objects, we're going to change
them. We're going to show hide them on
the character. Let's review the results.
Hope you enjoyed the video. More content
coming soon. Like and subscribe and see
you in the next one.
