So, you want to create your own 3D
characters, but you're not sure where to
start from. 
Welcome to the free stylish character
master class where I'm going to be
showing you absolutely everything that
you're ever going to need to create your
own 3D characters. I will walk you step
by step through the entire process that
you can use over and over for any
character that you want to create. And
the workflow I'm going  to be
showing you in this master class is the
exact process I give to all the students
in my coaching program to help them
create characters just like these. So
whether you're just getting started with
character creation or you want to create
better characters, this master class is
going to guide you through the entire
process. And to help you get the most
out of this masterass, I've put all my
project files for each chapter of the
master class and also every resource
that I mentioned throughout the master
class. I've made those available for you
guys to download so that you can follow
along with absolute clarity of
everything that we're going to cover.
And you'll find the link for all of that
in the first link in the description.
And without wasting any more time, let
me show you everything that we are going
to learn in this master class.
I've designed this master class into
eight simple sessions. The first
session, we are going to cover choosing
your concept. You learn how to choose
the right concept for your stylized
character. I'm also going to show you
how you can gather references once you
have chosen your concept because
starting with a strong concept and
relevant references is going to make the
entire character creation process much
easier. The second session will focus
completely on sculpting and modeling our
character. And this session is split
into four chapters. In the first
chapter, we are going to cover blocking
out your character. And once we are done
with the blockout, we're going to move
on to the second chapter, which is
sculpting the face and the head of your
character. With the head complete, we
are going to move on to sculpting the
body of your character. And after that
is onto the final chapter, which is
sculpting the clothes and the
accessories for your character. And that
will conclude the sculpting and the
modeling session for our character. The
third session in this master class is
character topology. And I've also split
the topology session into three
chapters. The first chapter I'm going to
show you everything that you need to
know about topology and the topology.
And then we are going to go through the
topologizing the face of your character.
When we complete the face topology,
we'll move to the next chapter which is
topologizing the body of your character.
This will include the legs, the hands,
the feet, and also parts of your
characters like the inside of the mouth
and the teeth and the tongue. And lastly
for the characterology session, we are
going to coverizing the clothes and all
the accessories for your character. The
fourth session of the master class, we
focus entirely on UV unwrapping your
character. I'll show you why we UV
unwrap our character in the first place.
And I'm going to show you how UV
unwrapping works. With everything that
we learned there, I'm going to show you
how to properly UV unwrap any 3D
character. For the fifth session of the
master class, we are going to take a
look at hair grooming. Here we're going
to replace the hair that we sculpted
with actual strand beast hair. And we
are going to do all of that using
Blender's geometry node hair system.
After completing the hair, we are going
to bring our character to life with the
next session which is shading and
texturing our character. I'm going to
show you my easy to follow shading and
texturing workflow. And we are going to
be creating some shaders for the eyes
and also the hair. And we are also going
to be painting textures, making normal
maps and also some additional maps to
enhance the shader for our character. In
the seventh session of this master
class, we are going to go through
rigging your character. You'll learn how
rigging works and then we are going to
go ahead and use rigify to rig our
character. And with the rig we create,
we are going to create some different
poses for our character. And finally on
our list, the last session, we're going
to cover all the techniques that you
need for lighting and presentation where
I'll show you why your lighting matters
the most and how to beautifully present
your characters, render them out as
animation, and also make final renders.
Before we get started, there are some
important things to remember. So, first
off, who is this masterass for? If this
is your first time using Blender, if you
just recently installed Blender, you
know you want to create characters, but
you haven't really played around with
Blender much, then this master class is
going to be a bit too much for you. And
if that's the case for you, I want you
to go ahead and finish the donut
tutorial by Blender Guru first. If
you're able to finish that donut
tutorial, then you're going to have
everything that you need to go through
this master class. The next important
thing I want you to remember is that we
are going to be doing a lot of sculpting
for our character. So if you're not very
comfortable with sculpting, you would
want to check out my free sculpting
master class here on YouTube. So you can
just rate yourself 1 through 10 when it
comes to sculpting. And if you feel
you're above a five when it comes to
sculpting, then you can go through this
master class. But if you're below a
five, then you're going to need to check
out the sculpting master class. Another
common question that normally comes up
with sculpting is, do you need a
graphics tablet? And the truth is that
you don't need a graphics tablet to go
through this master class. A graphics
tablet is very, very nice to have, but
you don't need it to go through this
master class. But if you can get one for
yourself, then I highly recommend it.
The one I'm going to be using throughout
this master class is XP Pens Artist Pro
14 drawing display. The third important
thing I want you to remember is the
fundamentals for each session and each
chapter of the master class. I always
start off each chapter by going through
the fundamentals of what we are going to
cover in that chapter because it's
important that we understand how things
work before we try to recreate them. So
for every chapter we have fundamentals
and I don't want you to skip the
fundamentals because everything that
we're going to be doing in each chapter
is going to build up on what we covered
in the fundamentals. So make sure that
you don't skip the fundamentals of any
chapter. And also like I mentioned
earlier in this video, all my project
files and all the resources that I
mentioned throughout this master class
are available for you guys to download
is going to be the first link in the
description. Also, if you go to that
page right now, I've also separated the
master class into smaller and easier
videos for you to follow along along
with all the links and resources that I
mention throughout the master class.
Another very important thing to remember
is to give yourself a realistic timeline
to finish this master class. This master
class is over 20 hours long and I don't
expect you to also finish this master
class in the next 20 hours. A realistic
timeline I like to give to all the
students in my coaching program.
Especially for those who have never
created a character before is 3 months.
And 3 months might sound like a lot, but
you don't need to rush the process
especially if this is your first time
creating a character. And what I tell my
students to do is to treat each chapter
in the master class as a week. So you
give yourself a week to follow each
chapter. And since there are 13 chapters
in the master class, it will take about
3 months to complete. If you're more
experienced when it comes to creating
characters, then it will definitely take
you shorter time. But I just want to set
your expectations right before we dive
in. There's no need to rush the process.
Just enjoy the process and have fun
while learning. And finally, I have
something for 10% of you guys watching
this master class right now. So, I know
for a few of you watching this master
class, you have gone through all that
character modeling tutorials before.
This is not your first tutorial that
you're going through, but you've still
not been able to get to that quality of
characters that you want to create and
you're finding it a bit overwhelming
trying to create your own 3D characters
by yourself. You also overthink certain
parts of the process and this can lead
to a lot of frustration and you just end
up not finishing your project. So, if
that is you, instead of me giving you
more tutorials, it would be much better
for you if you could work one-on-one
with a mentor who's going to provide
direct and clear instructions to you and
also offer feedback on your work at
every step of the character creation
process so that it doesn't feel too
overwhelming. And that's where the
stylish character academy comes in. The
stylish character academy is my coaching
program and the paid version of the free
stylish character masterass. Inside the
academy, we have weekly coaching calls,
live Q&A sessions, and most importantly,
you're going to get personalized
feedback tailored to whatever kind of
character that you're working on. And if
that sounds like something you'll be
interested in, go to the second link in
the description and you can sign up
right away so that you can have me coach
you through every chapter that we are
going to go through in this master
class. This masterass is something I
wish I had when I started out my own
journey of creating characters in
Blender. And for some of you finding
this master class, it has probably
already made you excited about creating
characters in Blender. So I want you to
share that joy with someone by sharing
this master class with someone else who
is going to find it just as valuable as
you. So you can copy the link of this
video and share that with a friend. All
right, enough of the introduction. Let's
finally dive into the stylized character
masterass.
Welcome to chapter one of the stylish
character master class. In this chapter,
we're going to be taking a look at
choosing a concept for our 3D character.
So, the agenda for this video is very
simple. We just going to take a look at
choosing a concept. So, let's get
started. Before we get started, go ahead
and share this master class with
someone. Let's help more artists create
work that they are actually proud of.
And a little bit of warning, this is the
most important video in the entire
master class. So, watch the entire
video. Don't skip and don't jump around
to the different parts of this video.
Just make sure to watch the entire
video. All right. Choosing a concept.
Here's everything that you need to know.
First off, why does choosing a concept
matter? A good 3D character is going to
start with a good concept because your
concept is going to guide every decision
that you're going to be making later on
in the process. If you have a bad
concept, you end up with a bad 3D
character. But if you have an amazing
concept, you also end up with an amazing
3D character. We want to make sure not
to skip this step cuz every good 3D
character always starts from a good
concept. If you skip this step, it's
going to lead to weak results and it's
going to lead to a lot of confusion when
you actually get started in Blender
because you don't have a clear idea of
what you're doing. So the concept is
there to give us much more clarity on
the character we are trying to create.
So we want to make sure not to skip this
step. So we're going to take our time
here to set a strong foundation so that
we can make the entire workflow much
smoother and much more enjoyable. So the
reason why we choose a concept is to
have clarity on what we are doing when
we get into Blender so that we don't
have weak results and we are not
frustrated when we actually get into
Blender. All right. So what is a good
concept? I'm going to define a good
concept as anything that you find
beautiful or appealing. We would spend a
lot of hours here trying to explain what
appealing is. But for the sake of this
master class, a good concept is anything
that you find beautiful or appealing. If
the character design makes you excited
to create it in 3D, then that's a good
choice. And I don't want you to
overthink it. Like I said, your concept
is here to provide a clear idea. And
your concept should also be interesting
to you. So for me, these are some
examples of some characters I think or
that I find beautiful and appealing and
I'll be generally excited to create
these characters inside of 3D. So these
are just some examples of some things I
find appealing and I'll consider these
good concepts that work inside of 3D.
All right, now let's take a look at what
we want to avoid for this master class.
So specifically for this master class,
we want to avoid overly complex
character designs. So character designs
like this, we want to avoid just for the
purpose of this master class. After this
master class with everything that I've
showed you in this master class, you'll
be able to tackle character designs like
this. But for learning sake, cuz you're
going to be learning a lot of things.
Let's just avoid concepts like this for
now. After the master class, you can go
ahead and try out concepts like this. So
highly detailed concepts can slow down
the learning and create a lot of
unnecessary confusion and we definitely
don't want that while going through this
master class. So let's just focus on
simpler concepts that going to help us
learn the fundamentals and it's also
going to help us to learn faster. So
just for the sake of this master class,
let's avoid overly complex character
designs like this. All right. And now
let's take a look at where to find
character concepts. So you can find
character concepts on platforms like
Instagram, Art Station, Pinterest, or
you can also use work from artist that
you admire online. And if you're using
work from an artist you admire online,
make sure to take their permission to
use their work. If you don't know
exactly where to start with all of this,
I've created a Pinterest board with
beginner friendly concepts that you can
use that going to work well for this
course. So if I just open this up and
let me just go right there. So I've
pinned some concept art at Inspo. There
are over 60 of them here. So you can
just come through here, find a concept
that is going to work for you.
Everything here I pinned. I personally
pinned this by myself. So you can just
find a concept that works for you from
here and you should be able to find
something that works for you. So these
are concepts that you can use for this
master class. All right.
So you can go ahead to that Pinterest
board and find a concept something that
works for you. If you're not exactly
sure where to start, you can also go to
Instagram as station use work from your
favorite artist. But very importantly,
if you're using work from an artist,
make sure to take their permission. All
right. Now, once you lock in a concept,
once you found a concept, the next step
is going to be gathering references. So
references should support your choosing
concept. The whole idea of guiding
references is to give you a better
understanding of what you're going to be
doing when you actually start modeling
your character in 3D. So you're not just
gathering more beautiful images. You're
gathering references or you're gathering
images that give you better
understanding of what you're going to be
doing inside of 3D. So, gather images
that match your character's hair, your
character's clothing, your character's
material, and the style you're going for
because strong references are going to
help you stay consistent and make better
character modeling decisions. So, here's
an example of a concept I have. And let
me just actually go and show you this
concept. So, right here, I have this
concept I'm going to be using for the
master class. And this concept was made
by Jennifer Park. If I just open up her
Instagram here. So, this concept was
made by Jennifer Park, an amazing
character artist. She was nice enough to
let me use her concept for this
masterass. So, you can go ahead and
check out her work. I'm going to leave a
link to that in the description. So,
this is the main concept art I'm going
to be using for this masterass. Once I
locked in the concept art, then I went
ahead and I gathered other references
just like this. So I have references for
the face right here. So this is the main
concept. This is the overall style I'm
going for for the face. So I like how
big the eyes are and I like just the
features on the face. And then this one,
two, and three are going to give me
because this is an Asian character. So
I'm just going to use this as proportion
guides when I actually start sculpting
this character inside of Blender. And
then I gathered some more references for
the boots of this character. So you can
notice from the reference or from the
concept art here, I'm not really sure or
I don't have a clear idea of what's
going on on the boots. But once I go
ahead and gather references, this is
exactly what I'm going to be modeling
inside of Blender. So I'm going to model
this. And then these other three
references are just here are just here
to give me a better idea of the folds
that are going to be on the boots. So
this is what I'm going to be modeling.
So with the reference I'm gathering this
so I can have a clear idea of what I'm
going to be doing when I get inside of
Blender. Also the same thing with the
skits. When you take a look at the sket
from the concept art, you're not really
sure what's going on. But once I've got
that reference, I have a much better
understanding of how the skirt is
supposed to work. And also the same
thing for the hair. If you take a look
at the concept art, we have a general
idea of what the head of what the hair
is doing. But with the references like
this, we can clearly see the direction
of the hair. We can see how this part
separates out from this other part. So
this is why we gather references so that
we can have a clearer understanding of
what we are supposed to do when we start
modeling inside of Blender. And then
also I gathered some references for the
body. So I love the simplistic shapes
that we have on these references right
here. So, I'm going to be using this
when I'm sculpting the body of the
character. So, this is one example. Let
me just show you another example of
another character I'm currently working
on. So, this was the concept. This is
the main concept that I had. Then, I
went ahead, I gathered some references
for the face. I love the way the sculpt
looks. So, when I'm sculpting the face
of this character, I want something like
this while still maintaining the forms
of this face. And then I gathered some
references for the body of the
character. So I love how this looks for
the torso. When I'm sculpting the torso,
this is going to be my main reference.
Again, we have this image right here.
And then I gathered some more references
on the dress, how the ruffles on the
dress are. So that once I start once I
go into Blender and start modeling this
out, I'm going to have a clear
understanding. also gathered some more
references for the dress material so
that once we start shading we can cross
check and see if we have the right
material. I gathered some references for
the heels. I gathered some references
for the hair to give me a better
understanding of what's actually going
on in this hair and then I gathered some
more references for the jewelry of this
character. So these were the this is the
concept and then these are the
references. So this is just an example
of what you're going to be doing. I want
you to just go ahead choose a concept
and also gather references. And by the
way, this software is called PRF. It's
going to be very useful for gathering
references like this. If you don't
already have Pure F, just go ahead and
download it. I'm going to link this
below. So if you just go to this link
here, it's going to bring you to a page
like this. And then you can just scroll
down, choose either Windows, Mac, or
Linux. I'm currently on Windows. And
then you can pay for this or you can
just come here, type in a custom amount
and then you'll be able to download this
completely for free. So go ahead and
download PURF and gather references just
like this. All right, let's go back to
the slides. So that's how you gather
references based on your concept. So at
this checkpoint, I just want you to go
ahead and find the concept either on
Instagram as session from an artist you
like. Anywhere you normally find
concepts, you can go ahead and do that.
And then once you lock in your concept,
you can go ahead and gather relevant
references that give you a better
understanding of your concept. So that's
all you need to do before moving on to
the next chapter. All right, to
summarize, we understand the importance
of using concepts. We understand how to
use concepts and we understand how to
gather references based on the concept
we have chosen. So that's everything
that we learned in this video. If you
need any extra help with anything I've
said so far, you can go ahead and join
the stylish character academy where I'm
going to be holding your hand every step
of the process. And if you're already
loving the masterass, you can go ahead
and leave a review of this masterass on
Trust Pilot. The link is going to be
below this video. And with that, I'm
going to see you guys in the next
chapter where we actually go ahead and
start modeling our character inside of
Blender. I know that's part most of you
guys have been waiting for. So far, we
have been going through slides, but in
the next chapter, we are going to dive
into Blender and actually start building
our character. So, we're going to be
blocking out our character in the next
chapter. So, I'm going to see you guys
in the next chapter.
Welcome to chapter 2. In this chapter,
we are going to be taking a look at
blocking out your character. And our
agenda for this chapter, we're going to
take a look at what blocking out is.
Then we're going to go ahead and look at
why we block out our characters. Then
I'll show you how to block our
characters. And then we actually go into
Blender and block out a character inside
of Blender. As usual, share this master
class with someone. Let's help more
artists create work that they are proud
of. And a little bit of warning, as of
right now for you, this is the most
important video in the entire master
class. So don't skip around. Watch the
entire video and don't jump around. All
right, let's get started. What is a
blockout?
In blockouts or blocking out, it means
using very simple shapes to build the
foundation of your character. At this
stage, we want to ignore all the details
and only focus on the basic forms, the
proportions, and the structure. And I'm
going to show you an example of what
blockout is. So here are some examples
of blockouts where we're just really
where we are just using really simple
shapes to block out our character. So at
this stage we are removing all forms of
details and we are just laying down
really solid foundations for the
character. And these project files you
can download them and take a look at it.
The link is going to be below this
video. So here's an example of a
blocker. Just using very simple shapes
to lay down foundations for our
character. So we using very simple
shapes to build out the foundation of
our character. At this stage, we want to
ignore all details and only focus on the
basic forms. So that's what a blockout
is. And now what to know before blocking
out. You need to understand the
proportions of your specific character
before starting out. While they are
basic human proportions, stylish
character are often going to break those
proportions. So for this master class,
your chosen concept from chapter one
will be your main guys will be your main
guide and we'll use it to measure and
compare proportions directly inside of
Blender. So when it comes to choosing a
stylized character, you might have a lot
of characters and you might notice here
these characters have different
proportions. So right on this character,
the head is about the same height with
the body and also about the same height
with the leg. So you just want to know
or be aware of these proportions before
you actually get started with sculpting
in Blender cuz for every character or
for most characters is going to be
really different. So right here from
here to here is about the same length
from here to here. So we just want to
make sure to identify this right now
before we actually get started with
blocking out in Blender. So that when we
have or when we start blocking out men
is a lot more easier to identify. So at
this stage you want to just take a look
at your specific concept that you've
chosen and that's going to be our main
guide that's going to help us enter
Blender. Now let's look at why we block
out characters. We block out characters
to create a strong foundation for
sculpting. At this stage we're removing
the clothes. for removing every fine
detail and we want to focus on just the
base structure because everything else
in the character will be built on this
foundation. So it needs to feel correct.
We need to make sure it's correct before
moving forward. So we block our
characters to have a strong foundation
before we get into the fine detail
sculpting. Okay. And it's also necessary
to have a blockout. It's always
necessary to have a blockout because a
solid blockout is going to make
sculpting so much easier and so much
more controlled. Once the foundation is
in place, you can focus on adding the
details without struggling with the
proportions or the forms laid down. So,
I'm just going to show you an example
right here. So, let's say we already
have this block out. And now, if I
wanted to sculpt this to I'll just come
in here, select this, Ctrl G to actually
join them. And then if I go ahead and
remesh this, it's going to be so much
easier to sculpt. Finally, those now
that we have these main forms in place
and just with a few brush strokes, you
can already start to get something that
already looks nice once you have a solid
block out in place. So that's the reason
we're blocking out. And that's why it's
necessary to have a block out so that
once we actually get started with
sculpting, it's actually so much easier
to do. Okay, let me just undo those
steps. All right, go back to the slides.
So, that's why we block out our
characters. Now, let's take a look at
how to block out your character. First
things first, you want to always make
sure that you're following the shape
language of your character. Different
characters are going to use different
shapes. Some around, some are angular,
some are boxy, and your blockout should
reflect the shape language of your
chosen concept. And I'm going to show
you an example right here. So for most
characters, they come in different
forms, shapes, or sizes. On this
character here, you can see we have this
kind of triangulated box. So I can see
how those shapes are on every part of
the character. So you always want to
make sure to keep this in mind for our
own character when we are blocking out.
I say we have a more boxy character. And
you can notice how throughout the whole
character we maintain that kind of box
on the character. We maintain that for
the face. We maintain that for the legs
just like so. Also the same thing on
this one. We have an elongated box right
here. So we just want to make sure we
are maintaining the shape language
throughout the whole sculpting process.
And then also we want to break the
character into different parts to make
sculpting much easier. We want to divide
the character into major sections like
the head, the torso, the arms and the
legs. This is going to make the blockout
feel clearer and also feel organized. So
right here you can notice how all these
are individual parts. So this is just
going to make the blockout process feel
more clearer and also more organized. So
break character into parts and then use
really simple shapes. Start with very
simple primitive shapes inside of
Blender. Keep the resolution low so that
we can avoid details and just focus on
only the overall forms. At this stage,
when I'm making blockouts inside of
Blender, I just use something called a
round cube. If you go into your own
Blender right now, you might not see
this option, but I'll show you how to
turn that on a little bit later. So, I
just use this round cube. So, everything
you're seeing here is just a modified
version of this round cube. And I'm
using this type of low resolution mesh
so that we don't start focusing on the
details. So, this mesh is everything
that you can see right here. So, we want
to make sure that we're using a very
simple shapes so that we don't get lost
in the details at this stage. And at
this point, we want to remember a
principle called straight versus cos.
Mixing straight and curved forms makes
the character look more appealing and
more dynamic. This is going to help
avoid stiff or boring shapes. And I'm
also going to show you an example right
here. So, let me just isolate this
character. And I'm also going to hide
the hands. So right here,
the legs, we have a cob side and we have
a straight side. Okay, we have a
straight side and we have a cob side.
Principles like this on your character.
And I'm going to once you start
sculpting, I'll show you where to apply
this principle or principles like that
are going to make sculpting look much
more organic. And you can also notice on
the side of the character, you can also
notice this nice S shape running through
the whole character. So principles like
this, you want to always make sure to
keep in mind when you're sculpting your
character. So use the principle of stage
versus corves. And then you want to
frequently check the silhouettes of your
character. Your character should be
readable from a distance. A strong
silhouette is a sign of a good blockout.
And let me actually show you a trick
inside of Blender to check the
silhouette of your character. So if you
go up here to the shading and you select
custom right here, you can just change
this color all the way to black.
Is usually on white, so you can just
bring it all the way to black and then
you'll be able to see the silhouette of
your character. Also, make sure in
Blender 5.0, make sure specular lighting
is turned off so that you can see this
correctly. So, what I like to do when
I'm blocking out is just I'm going to
split up the view port here. So, I'm
going to have the silhouette right here.
And then I'm going to be sculpting
normally right here so that we can make
sure that the silhouette of the
character always looks nice at all
points in time. So, that's a good way of
checking the silhouette of your
character. All right. At this
checkpoint, we're going to go ahead and
we're going to create a simple blockout
for our character. So let's dive right
into Blender to get started. So inside
of Blender, I'm currently using the
latest version of Blender, which is
Blender 5.0 at the time of recording
this video. All right, so let's get
started. I'm going to select all and X
to delete. And to get started with
blocking out the character, I'm going to
add in a round cube. You can go up to
add mesh. And I have this round cube
option right here. If you don't see any
of these extra options right here, let
me show you how you can enable that. You
can go up to edit under preferences.
You want to go to get extensions and
then just search for extra mesh objects.
It's going to say install right here.
Just make sure you have that installed
on your computer. And once you have that
installed, if you go up to add, if you
go up to mesh, you should see this round
cube object right here. So, we can just
add that in. Something else I also like
to do is when I go up to add and under
mesh, I can right click and currently I
have this in my quick favorite. If I
just remove this, I'm going to right
click and it's going to say add to quick
favorite. So, I'm going to add that to
my quick favorites. So once I press Q
now you can see I have the option to add
the round cube from my PI right. So this
might be the only option on your P right
I have other options and as we go I'll
tell you when to add these other options
to your P right. So right now I have the
round cube on my P right so if I just
select the round cube from there I'll be
able to add in another round cube. So
that's something that you should do
right now. Just go up to add mesh, right
click, and then add it to your KU.
Right? So that once you press Q on the
keyboard, you're able to access any of
these. All right. Now that we've added
in the round cube, let's go into the
sculpting workspace and we're actually
going to set up for sculpting. I'm going
to select the round cube and go into
sculpt mode. And inside of Blender, we
have the sculpting brushes down here. We
also have some additional sculpting
tools. right here to the left. So, let's
set up Blender for sculpting. Before I
start sculpting, I'm going to press N to
bring up this end panel. And let me make
sure you guys can see the shortcuts I'm
pressing. So, any shortcut I press is
going to be displayed right here. So,
now what I want you to change is to go
under view and then for the focal
length, I want you to change this to
150.
That way your sculpt is not going to
look distorted when we start sculpting.
Okay, once you change the focal length,
now I'm going to split up the view port.
I'm going to come right here until the
cursor changes to this crosshair. And
then I'm just going to drag this out to
somewhere around here.
I'm going to close this sidebar by
pressing T. And I'm going to scroll up
here and I'm going to toggle show
gizmos. And I'm also going to toggle
show overlays. I'm going to drag the
toolbar down right here. Just make sure
to drag this down just like that. And
this view port right here is going to be
where we can view the overall
progression of the sculpt while we work
on it. So I like to have a view port
here that can view the overall
progression. And also if I need to, I
can come here and also check the
silhouette from time to time. We're
going to do that a little bit later. So
right here, I I like to have this view
port here. And also right here, I can
use this and open up my references. So
I'm just going to use PRF. In this case,
I'm going to open up PRF. And I'm going
to open up my references right here.
And for PRF, you want to make sure that
this is pinned to always on top. So, I'm
just going to bring this right here.
I'll place it at the corner right here.
If I can actually grab that. I'll just
place it
right here.
And I'm going to resize that.
Okay. And then I'm going to zoom into my
references. So, we are going to be
blocking out the body. So, these are my
references that I'm going to be looking
at when sculpting. And then I have the
preview, sculpt preview up here. And
this is going to be my main workspace
for sculpting. All right. Something else
I also like to do before I start
sculpting. Right now, if I press Z on
the keyboard, you can see that I have
these two extra options. So, I have this
toggle overlays option here, and I have
this toggle X3 option right here. If I
just Uber over this, you can see I'm
able to toggle overlays just by swiping
up. And if I swipe down, I'm able to
toggle X-ray. So this is going to be
really useful once we start coping. To
enable that, you can go up to edit and
then you can go up to preferences and
then under key map, you can enable the
extra shading pi menu items. So once you
enable that and you press Z on your
keyboard, you're going to have these two
extra options that will help you to to
overlays very easily instead of having
to go up here to turn it on and off. For
now, I'm going to leave it on. And now
let's actually get started with blocking
out this character. I'm going to use the
grab brush or blocking out. We are
mostly going to be using the grab brush
cuz we just want to get the overall
forms. So the grab brush is going to be
our best friend. The shortcut to get the
grab brush is G. And once we have the
grab brush, I'm going to turn on X
symmetry.
And now let's go ahead with sculpting.
The first object we're going to be
sculpting or the first part of the
character we're going to be sculpting is
going to be the head. So let's go ahead
and get started. Using the grab brush,
let's just drag this down to get the
shape of the head. So, we want a nice
egg shape. Something just like this.
And then I'm going to go to the side
view. I'm going to press three on the
numpad to go to the side view. And then
I'm also going to bring this forward for
the jaw. So, this is just a really
simple head shape that we want.
Something like this. And now I'll go
back to the front view. I can select
this minus Y button up here to go to the
front view. And now I'm going to use the
line project brush. This brush right
here.
And then I'm going to slice the sides of
the head. We don't want that to be
round. So I'm just going to slice the
sides. And you can do that more than
once. So you get the exact shape that
you're looking for. Something like this
is going to be fine for the face of the
character from the front view. Now I'll
go to the side view and I'll focus a
little bit more more on this side view.
Now we want to make the separation
between the jaw and the cranium. Right
now we are currently blocking out this
head. There's a whole chapter where we
are going to sculpt the head. So we're
going to do this again. But for right
now, let's just make sure to get a be
shape. And then once we get to that
chapter of sculpting the head, I'm going
to go over more of this in detail. All
right, let's use the crease polish
brush. Shift C is the shortcut. And you
can actually search for these brushes
right here. So if you just search for
any of these brushes, you can see them
there. And all the brushes I'm going to
be using are going to be displayed right
here. All right. So with the crease
polish brush,
I just use a crisp poly brush. And we're
going to mark out the separation between
the jaw and the cranium. So just
something like this.
Okay. Something like that. And we can
pull this cranium up a little bit more.
I'm going to use the grab brush to pull
this up. Something like that. All right.
And for the back of the head, I'm going
to still on the grab brush. I'm going to
hold down shift to activate the smooth
brush. And then I'm just going to smooth
this out like so. So, this is the shape
of the head that we have. Nice. I'm
going to use the grab brush and I'm just
going to pull this back a little bit
small. We don't want the back of the
head to be completely round. So, I'm
just going to pull this back a little
bit more. And then let's define the
shape of the jaw from the side view. So,
we can just pull this forward. Something
like this. All right. That looks nice
for the shape of the head. On the side
of the head here, I'm going to use the
script brush. Shift T is the shortcut.
And then I'm just going to clean out the
side of the head. So, something that
looks like this. And I'm just going to
use the grab brush to adjust the shape
of the head. All right. So, this looks
like a really nice shape for the head.
Let's go ahead and continue on in the
blockout. The next object we want to
block out is going to be the neck of the
character. So, let's go ahead and we're
going to add in another round cube. You
can press shift A mesh and you can add
in another round cube, but I'm going to
add it from my P. Right. So pressing Q
this option is going to come up or these
options are going to come up and then
you can select the round cube option.
All right. Very importantly when making
blockouts I like to move these objects
only in edit mode and doing it that way
we maintain the origin point of the
object. That way our brushes are going
to work correctly. The symmetry inside
of sculpt mode is going to work
correctly. If you don't know what I'm
saying, that's completely fine. We just
go up here where it says object mode and
go into edit mode. This is where we want
to transform the object. So, don't
transform the object in object mode. You
want to make sure to transform the
object in edit mode. So, I'm going to go
into edit mode. I'll go from the side
view. You can press up here or you can
press three on the numpad to go to side
view. I'm going to scale this down. I'm
just going to bring this right here for
the neck.
All right. And now to actually make this
look more like a neck, I'm going to
scroll up here. And then right here
where it says toggle X3, I'm going to
toggle X3. So now I can see through the
object. So I'm just going to select this
the bottom half of that round cube that
we added. And then I'm going to extrude
this down for the neck. Somewhere around
here should be fine. All right. And now
I'm going to actually move this neck
into place. So I'm going to move it
right here. Something like this. And for
the neck, we want to make sure that we
don't leave the neck straight like this.
The neck actually rotates or tilts
backward. So I'm just going to rotate
this and I'll place it right here for
the neck. And I'm just going to select
this again. And I'll bring this right
here. And I'm also using the shortcut
Alt Z to toggle on the X-ray instead of
going up here to toggle it on. Alt Z is
the shortcut. All right. Now that we
have that in place, if we go into sculpt
mode and we try to sculpt on this part
of the neck, you'll notice that because
we don't have any geometry here, we're
not actually able to sculpt on those
meshes. So let's go into edit mode.
We're going to add some more loop cuts
right here. So, CtrlR is the shortcut to
add loop cuts. And then I can just
select a number. So, I can press six and
it's going to add six loop cuts. And I'm
just going to enter to confirm that and
escape to make sure they're in the
correct spot. All right. Now that we
have that, we can now go into sculpt
mode. We can start sculpting out the
shape of the neck. I'm going to go up
here to the eximemetry. Make sure XM3 is
turned on. And let's go ahead and start
sculpting the neck. For the neck, I like
to pull out this area right here. So,
this part is going to merge with the
chest of the character. And I'm also
going to pull out this area right here.
Is going to merge with the back of the
character. From the bottom view, I'm
just going to pull this out. This side
is going to match with the shoulders of
the character.
Okay, nice. And right here, we want to
make sure that this neck object is
flowing nicely into the head of the
character. So, I'm just going to use the
grab rush. I'm going to bring this out
just like that.
Okay. And I also do the same from the
side. We want to make sure that these
are flowing nicely into each other. Just
like so.
All right. And we have something like
that for the niche. Okay, this looks
good for a shape of the neck. One thing
I also like to do on the neck is to use
the line project brush. And then just
slice this just like so. All right, that
looks nice. And now let's go ahead. I
will make another blockout. The next
blockout I want to make is for the ears
of the character. Before I do that, I'll
just go back to the head object. I'm
going to use the crease polish brush to
just define this separation between the
jaw and the cranium. So, I'm just going
to crease it all the way up to here. So,
somewhere around here, this is where the
ear is going to sit. And then I'm just
going to smooth out this area. So, just
while holding down shift, we can smooth
out that area. Like so. All right.
Something like that looks good for the
head. Now, let's go ahead and block out
the ears of the character. So, let me
just zoom into this a little bit more.
All right. So, this is the shape of the
ear that we're going for. You can always
make sure to take a look at your own
concept to see the shape of the ear
you're going for. So, I'm going to add
in another round cube. And I'm adding in
another one from the key right menu. So,
Q for the P right and then adding a
round cube. Very importantly, again, you
want to make sure not to transform the
object in object mode. Let's go into
edit mode. All right. I'm going to go
from the front view right here. I'm
going to scale this down. I just bring
it to the side of the face. That's
usually where the ear is. And then I'm
going to also from the side I'm just
going to bring this back. Make sure it's
on that separation within the jaw and
the cranium. Somewhere around there. And
now let's go into sculpt mode.
And now let's refine the shape of the
ear. For the ear, I'm going to use the
line project brush. I'm just going to
slice part of the ear. And if you're
using the line project brush, and it
does something like this. So, it's
cutting the side that we don't actually
want it to cut. So, I just drew a line
like this. You can see the part that you
like gray out. That's the part it's
going to cut. So, to flip this, you just
want to press F on the keyboard to flip
this. And then we can cut the back just
like so. And then I'm also going to do
something like this. So this is the
shape that we want for the ear. All
right. Let's go ahead and we're going to
mirror this over to the other side. The
way I like to mirror this over to to the
other side is to come here to the
symmetry options. So where it says X, Y,
and Z, you're going to see this drop
down. So just press that drop down. And
then under symmetriize we want to
symmetriize from the plus xaxis to the
minus xaxis. And let me show you why we
are doing that. So right here this is
the x-axis which is this area of
blender. And if I hover over this gizmo
you see that right here is the minus x
axis which is this axis right here. So
currently we have the air on the plus x
axis. So we want to mirror it over to
the minus x axis. So that's why we
changed the direction right here. And
now that we have changed our direction,
we can go ahead and symmetize it. And
then we should have an air on the other
side. So now let's also make sure to
turn on X symmetry. And I'm going to use
the grab brush in this case. G for the
grab brush. And now let's actually shape
the ear. So I'm just going to use the
grab brush to pull this into place. Just
something like this for the ear. Okay.
The ear doesn't usually face front. It's
not like facing always facing front
depending on your character. So you can
go into edit mode. I'm going to select
this and then I'm just going to rotate
this a bit. And then I'm going to move
this right here. And we can just rotate
that into place. All right, that looks
nice. Now that we have rotated that, we
can use the grab brush once again and
just pull this into place. So, the shape
of the ear, something like this works
just fine for this character. And I'm
just going back to the shape of the
head. Now that we have added in some
more objects, some extra objects like
the ear and the neck, you might see some
changes that you need to make on the
head. So, you can just go ahead and
adjust that. Okay. So, those are just a
few adjustments I made on the head. All
right. This is looking good. So, you
should have something like this. should
have the head in place, the ear in
place, and also the neck in place. And
just make sure you're happy with this
before actually moving forward. So,
right now, I'm happy with the way this
looks. So, I'm going to move forward.
All right, I'm moving forward to the
body to the torso. Let's go ahead and
let's code in the torso. And you'll also
notice I'm constantly looking at this so
get an idea of what I'm doing. So,
always make sure that you have an eye on
your references when you're sculpting.
All right, let's go ahead and let's
sculpting the torso. I'm going to add in
another round cube for my key fra Q for
the key, right? And then add in another
round cube. And I'm going to go into
edit mode. I'm going to go from the
front view. And I'm just going to bring
this down right here for the torso. S
and Y to scale this down. And I'm just
going to move this right here. Okay. On
the character, remember I said you want
to have a nice scurve. Nope, probably
not like that. You want to have a nice
scope running through. Well, my S codes
are badly. Let me just draw that again.
Something like this flowing through the
whole character. So, we're just going to
rotate this torso like this. I'm going
to scale that up a little bit. So
something like this is going to be the
upper torso. Now let's actually go into
sculpt mode and we're going to sculpt
this out a lot more. All right, I'll go
into sculpt mode with the grab brush. G
is the shortcut for the grab brush. I'm
going to make sure to turn on X
symmetry. And now let's start sculpting
the torso. For the torso, I'm going to
pull this part. So from the back, I'm
just going to pull this into the neck
just like so.
And now also from the side I'm going to
bring this out like so. So this is going
to be the shoulders of the character.
And then I'm just going to pull this
down. This is going to represent the rib
cage. And then I'm going to bring this
one up just like this. All right. So
this is going to be the first part of
the torso from the back. We want to make
sure that this is not rounded like this.
So, let's just bring this in. Something
that looks a little bit more natural.
Just like that. Okay. So, this is going
to be the upper torso.
That looks good. Now, let's go ahead and
we're going to add in another round cube
for this part of the torso. So, I'm
going to add in another round cube.
I'll go into edit mode. I'll bring this
down here
and I'll scale it on the Y ais. I'll
place that right here. And I can also
scale this on the Z axis.
Okay, nice. Now, let's go ahead and
let's sculpt this into shape. I'm going
to turn on the X symmetry right here.
And now, let's sculpt this into shape.
I'm just going to bring this in. So,
right now I'm sculpting. Let me just
zoom into this image. Right now, what
I'm doing for the torso, I'm breaking up
the torso into three different parts.
So, we currently have one for the
shoulders or for the rib cage. And then
I want another one for right here. This
my drawing is very bad. Let me just add
again. We currently have one for right
here.
I want another one for right here. And
then we're going to use another object
to block out this part of the character.
So, that's currently what I'm doing. So
right now we are blocking out this part
of the character. So let's go ahead with
the inra brush. I'm just going to bring
this in. And then I'm going to for the
blockouts for the different blockout
objects, you want to make sure that
these are flowing nicely with each
other. So you want to avoid stacking
like this on these different objects.
You actually want to make sure that
these are flowing nicely into each
other. So something like that for the
front. And then for the back, we can
make sure that this has a nice flow to
it. So something like that
is going to look good. And then I'm just
going to use the line project brush
right here. So I also have that added to
my P. Right. I have some brushes added
to my P. Right. You can select right
click on any of these brushes and add
them to your P. Right. So so far we have
been using the line project brush a lot.
So you can just right click and add this
to your clip right so that you can
easily access it from your P right I'll
tell you when to add these other ones.
So for now just the line project brush
I'm going to select that from my pre
right and then I'm just going to slice
the bottom half to flip it and then
we're going to slice that something like
this and then we can further scul this
into shape.
All right. Something that looks like
that is good for the
other part of the torso. Now, let's go
ahead and we'll sculp in this part of
the torso. Let's add in another round
cube in objects mode. I'll go into edit
mode and I'm just going to bring this
right here. All right. I also make sure
that I can see everything from this
viewport.
And I'm going to bring this right here.
All right. Now, let's in edit mode, S
and Y, scale this down. And then we want
to rotate this. So, right now, I'm
noting on this character that I'm losing
that S shape on the torso. So, I'm just
going to switch to these objects right
now. You can press Alt Q to switch
between these different objects. And
then I'm just going to rotate this a
little bit and move that out so that we
have that nice core flowing through the
whole character. And we can also just go
into select all of these at once. Go
into edit mode and we can also rotate
this all at once. So something just like
this. All right, I'll go back into
object mode and let's go back to this
object. All right, I'm going to rotate
this and I'm going to place this right
here. Something like that. So now let's
go into sculpt mode. And then we're
going to be able to start sculpting on
this.
I'm going to make sure to turn on X
symmetry with the grab brush. Let's go
ahead and let's start sculpting. I'm
going to pull this down here. And I'm
also going to pull this out for the
shape of the hips. So something like
this. And right here, this is where the
legs are going to come out from. So
let's use the line project brush. I'm
going to use the line project brush. And
we're just going to slice this off.
Something that looks just like that. All
right. So, the legs are going to come
out from this area, this place right
here. So, now let's make sure that these
objects are working nicely together. So,
I'm just going to bring this back. We
can always switch to this object to make
sure that everything is flowing nicely
with each other. All right. So, I'll
switch back to this object with alt Q.
And now let's start planning out the
back of the character. So I'm just going
to use the grab brush and bring it this
way.
Okay. And then we can start marking out
the separation at the back of the
character. I'm going to use the crease
polish brush for this. And I'm just
going to mark out this separation right
here.
All right. And then let's use the grab
brush to pull this out. So, this is
going to be the back of the character.
Something like that. And then from the
side view, I'm just going to make sure
that I have these objects walking
together. So, right now, they're just
kind of floating on each other. So, I'm
just going to switch to this object from
the back. I'm just going to pull this
in. Switch to this object from the back.
I'll pull this up and I'll make sure I
have this nice app at the back of the
character
to something like this. Making sure that
the character looks good. And I'm also
going to take a look at my reference a
little bit. So on my reference I think
the body is a little bit wider. And
right now I have like a very thin body.
So all we can do to fix this is just
select all of this. I'm going to go into
edit mode and then S and X to just scale
this out a little bit. So something like
that. I also scale it on the Yaxis also.
So I'm just taking a look at my
reference and determining the shapes I
need to change at this point. Okay, now
we have something that looks like that.
I'll go ahead and I'm just going to keep
on refining these shapes. So this is
going to be where the legs are going to
come out from.
So something like this is going to look
really nice. And as we add in more
objects, you're going to see that we're
going to need to change some of these.
That's completely fine. Let's just go
ahead and keep on adding out those
objects. That's why we are blocking out
in the first place. So let's go ahead
and let's add in an object for the lake.
I'm going to add in another round cube.
I'll go into edit smooth and I'm just
going to move this right here. All
right, I'll scale this down. S and Z to
scale it up. So, this is going to be for
the upper leg. And we're going to place
this right here.
And I'm going to zoom out on this view
port to make sure that I can see the
whole character. All right, that looks
good. Something like that. I'll place
the legs right there. And to mirror this
over to the other side, I'm going to use
a mirror modifier. So, let me just add
in a mirror modifier right there. And if
you move your object properly in edit
mode, the mirror object to automatically
come this way. If you didn't, then
you're going to have to go into object
mode. Press Ctrl A and just make sure to
apply all transforms. All right. And now
you should have this object or the
mirrored object on the other side. Now,
let's sculpt out the legs for this
character. To sculpt out the legs, let's
go ahead and let's make sure that these
shapes are flowing nicely into the
torso. Okay. And I'm just pulling out
this part for the hips of the character.
And then I'm going to pull down the
legs. So, a shape like this looks good
for the legs. Something I like to do is
to just use the line project brush. And
then I'm going to slice this this way.
And now let's use the grab to just pull
this in. And we're going to start
forming the knee of this character. So
this is going to be the knee of the
character. Something like this. I'm just
going to pull that down a little bit
more. Let's take a look at this shape
from the side view. All right. From the
side view, you might notice the
character is going out of our scurve a
little bit. So let's just go into edit
mode. I'm going to rotate this
backwards.
And I'm going to pull this into the legs
or into the hips right there. Something
like this.
All right. And just like we mentioned
for the legs, you want the cold at the
front and you want straight at the back.
So, let's go ahead and do that. You can
use the grab brush and you can just pull
this out.
Okay. And then for the back, we want it
to be much straighter.
Something like that. And at the back,
right here, I'm just going to make sure
that this back part is actually
overlapping the legs. So, something like
this. Okay. And that's going to make it
have a nice shape.
Something like that. You can also pull
these legs into
the torso just like that. And I'm going
to make this part of the character much
wider. So I'm just going to use the grab
brush and we can pull this out into
shape a little bit more. I'm actually
just going to go into object mode. I'll
select this two and sx to scale it a
little bit more on the x-axis. So now
that we're adding in more objects and
just seeing some things that we need to
change on this other object, which is
completely fine. So I'm just going to go
ahead and make those changes right now.
I'll make sure that these are working
together, that everything is flowing
nicely together.
All right, this shape is starting to
look nice. We definitely still have to
come back and adjust some of this.
That's completely fine. Let's go ahead
and keep on moving forward. Let's add in
the lower legs. I'm going to add in
another round Q. And then I'm going to
go into edit mode. And I'm going to
bring this down right here.
Okay. S and Z to scale this on the Z
axis. I'm going to scale this down a
little bit more. S and Z to scale it on
the Z axis. And then we can bring this
back for the character.
All right.
This looks good right now. Let's go
ahead and mirror that over to the other
side. We can come in here and add a
mirror modifier. For the mirror
modifier, I like to add this to my key,
right? So, you can right click and it
should say add to right for you. So, I
have that on my P right. So, if I just
go, if I'm in object mode, I press Q, I
can easily just add that in. All right.
And then we should have the legs right
there or the lower legs. Now, let's go
ahead and let's refine the shape of this
object. I'm going to go into sculpt
mode. And then for the lower legs, I'm
just going to make this bottom part a
lot more narrower. Something like that.
And then I'm going to use the line
project brush to just slice off this
bottom part of the leg. I'm going to
pull this down a little bit more. All
right.
Something that looks like that. And then
I'm going to use the grab brush. I'm
going to pull this out this way. And
then I'm going to bring this one down
and out. Something like this. So for the
legs, there's something I want you to
remember. And it's called the angry
face. We are going to take a look at
this later on in about chapter 3 or
chapter 2. I'm going to explain that
later on. But let me just show you it
now. So if you draw an angry face right
here on the legs of your character.
So this is the eyes of the angry face
and this is the mouth. So right here you
notice how the legs are supposed to
follow this line. So this one is coming
up right here and then this one is
coming down right here. So this is just
for the lower legs. It's going to work
just for the lower legs. And then down
here this part is going to be the inner
part of the ankle. So the ankle is going
to be higher right here. And then this
other part of the ankle is going to be
lower. So this is going to be for the
shape of the feet when we start adding
in the feet. So we get the idea right
now. So just remember that angry face.
We're going to take a look at that a
little bit later on. So let's go ahead
and keep on blocking out the shape of
the lower leg. So this looks good from
the front view. Let's go ahead and take
a look at it from the side view. From
the side view, it looks a little bit too
thick. So, let's just adjust that. I'm
going to bring this back. And you want
to remember that principle of straight
versus curves once again.
So, I'm just going to use the grab brush
and I'm going to pull this out.
Something like that.
Okay. So, this good for leg.
Okay. That looks good for the shape of
the leg. And you can see we have this
nice escort running through the whole
character. Okay, that looks good. I'm
just going to adjust the shape of the
lower leg a little bit more until I have
a shape that I like. All right,
something like that is going to look
good for the lower leg and for the legs
actually.
All right, something like that looks
good. I'm going to adjust the shape of
the total from the side view. So, I'm
going to select this S and Y to scale
this up a little bit more.
Okay, nice. And now, let's refine the
shapes that we currently have. Before
moving on, I'm going to adjust the
shapes of the legs to make sure we start
to get the shape of the hips. Something
like that. And right here, I want to
make sure that this upper leg forms the
knee of the character right here. So,
this is going to be the knee of the
character. And then for the lower leg,
going to make sure that this is working
nicely with the upper leg. Make sure
that everything is flowing nicely into
each other. Just like this.
Okay, that looks good. And then also the
same thing from the side view. We want
to make sure that these ships are
working nicely together and are flowing
with each other. Okay,
something like this looks good. All
right, now I can switch to this object
and adjust the shape
right here. And I'm also going to do the
same right here.
All right, that is going to look good or
that is looking good for now. We're
going to come back and adjust this if
necessary.
And just before we move forward, let me
just adjust the shapes right here. All
right, I'm going to go ahead and I'm
going to block out the lower leg or the
leg, sorry, of this character. So, let's
go ahead and block out the Let's go
ahead and add in a round cube. And then
in edit mode, I'm just going to bring
this down here. I'm going to scale this
down right here. From the side view, I'm
going to scale this on the Z axis. I'm
also going to scale this on the Yaxis.
And I'm going to place this right here.
All right, let's add in a mirror
modifier to this. So, we have added the
mirror modifier to our key favorite. So
we can just go ahead and select that
from the Q rise menu. Okay. And let's go
ahead and sculpt in the shape of the
leg. So let's shape the leg from the
bottom view. You can press this minus Z
axis up here to go to the bottom view.
And for the shape of the leg, just think
of it as a rectangular shape. Just like
this. So let's go ahead and
block out that rectangular shape. I'm
going to use a grab brush and I'm really
going to block out that rectangular
shape just like that.
So, this is going to be a rectangular
shape for the leg. Nothing too serious,
nothing too complex right now. Remember,
we are blocking out. So, we want really
simple forms. And also for sculpting the
feet, there's a whole chapter dedicated
to sculpting the feet. So, we're going
to take a look at that more in that
chapter. But for now, let's get the base
shape in. I'm going to use the line
project brush. And I'm just going to
slice this part of the leg right here.
All right, that looks good. And now,
let's actually make this look more like
a fit. So, we want to bring this up
right here to actually make sure it
merges with the upper leg or sorry, with
the lower leg. So, let's go ahead and we
can use the grab brush to pull this up.
We're going to notice that once we are
pulling that up, we also pulling up this
bottom part. We don't necessarily want
that. So, I'm going to go into the side
view.
I'm going to go from the side view. I'm
going to use this brush right here
called the lasso marks brush. I'm going
to select that. And now with the lasso
marks, you can select a certain portion
of the object and we can max that part
out. Now that we have maxed that part
out, if we go back to the grab brush and
we use the grab brush to pull this part
up, you're going to notice we are not
affecting the bottom of the leg. So
that's good. Let's just bring this up
for the shape of the feet. Something
like this.
And I'm just going to hold down shift
and smooth all of that out.
And then I'm going to just pull it up
once again.
Something like that. All right. We are
definitely going to have to refine the
shape of the feet a lot more. And for
the feet, now I'm going to clear the
max. Alt M is shortcut to clear the
mask. For the feet, we want to think of
the feet as a right angle triangle from
the front view. And then from the side
view, you want to think of it as a
triangle just like this. So let's go
ahead and make the shape. So from the
front view, I'm just going to pull this
part out
like this so that we have that right
angle triangle shape. So just something
like that to make character feel much
more balanced. And now I'm going to
switch to the lower leg. And then I'm
just going to adjust the shape of the
lower leg to fit the shape of the feet.
All right. Something like that. And then
from the side view, let's also make sure
to have this in place. I'm just going to
smooth out this area right here. From
the side view, I'm also going to switch
to the lower lay. And let's just adjust
the shape of the feet to actually fit.
Let's adjust the shape of the leg to fit
the shape of the feet. All right. I'm
going to go back to the feet object and
then I'm just going to round out the
back of the sheets to start getting that
shape of the feet. So, just rounding
rounding it out with the grab brush.
And then I'm just going to smooth this
out. So, I'm just holding down shift and
I'm smoothing everything out just like
so.
I'm also going to smooth out this bottom
part so that everything starts to look
really smooth and really nice. Okay.
From the bottom view again, we can just
go ahead and adjust shape to make it a
little bit more rectangular.
Something like that.
And then from the bottom, let's just
pull this part in slightly. And let's
also pull this part in a little bit like
this. All right. Now we have the shape,
a nice shape for the feet. We can also
just pull this part in a little bit
more. Yeah, that looks nice. And also
from this part.
So, I'm just going ahead and making sure
that the shape looks good from all
angles possible. All right, this is
looking good. I'm going to go to the
lower leg and make sure that the shapes
on the lower leg
flow nicely into the shape of the feet.
Okay. So, I'm just switching between
these two objects to making sure
everything looks good.
All right. Now, we have something that
looks like this. I'm going to use the
grab brush to adjust the shapes of this
feet. Okay, that looks good. And now I'm
going to just adjust the shape of the
sheets. All right, this looks really
nice. Right now, we can select all of
these, going to edit mode. We can scale
this down to adjust the shapes of the
leg. So, I'm just scaling this down to
adjust the shape. So, I'm just taking a
look at the reference. And at this
point, I think I need to just make the
legs a little bit shorter. I'm going to
select this two S and X to scale it
down. Something like that. So at this
point you can just go ahead take a look
at your reference and try to translate
what you see on your reference to your
sculpt.
Okay. So I have really nice shape on my
sculpt just like this. All right. This
should torso and for the legs. Now I'm
going to go ahead and block out the arms
of the character. To start blocking out
the arms, I'm going to switch to this
upper torso object. Alt Q shortcut to
switch to that object. And I'm going to
use the line project brush right here.
I'm going to slice this part. So right
here, this is where the arms are going
to be. And I'll just use the grab brush
to pull that into shape.
And then I'm just shaping up some of
these other objects right here. And one
thing that you might notice inside of
render, you're going to notice if I zoom
out a little bit, you can see like some
weird artifacts on this mesh. So right
now, that is just because the scale of
our scene is we are not using actual
real world scale. So Blender doesn't
actually know what to do. So to just fix
that, I'm going to press N to bring up
this end panel to go up to view. And
then I'm going to change the clip start
to.1.
And now if you zoom out, you shouldn't
really notice that. So we are going to
adjust the scale of our character. We're
going to put it into reward scale. Once
we are done with scing, but for now,
let's just change the clip start to.1.
And I'll also do that on this view port
right here.
All right. Now, let's go ahead and let's
keep on sculpting the hands of this
character. To sculpt the hands, I'm
going to add another round cube. So,
just add another round cube. I'm going
to go into edit mode and I'm going to
place the hands right here.
For the hands, we're going to do the
same we did for the neck. I'm going to
toggle on the X-ray mode. So, right
here, Alt Z is the shortcut. And then
I'm going to select the bottom half.
And then we can extrude this with E
just like so.
I'm going to select all with A and I'm
going to rotate this
and I'm going to place this right here.
So for the hands, we want to put this
character into a neutral pose. Just
something like this that you see on this
image so that it's going to be ready for
rigging and animation. We don't want the
hands to be like a little bit too close
to the character cuz that way once you
start rigging it might affect our
rigging. So, let's just put this right
here into a neutral pose. And E pose is
the pose I like to use. So, I'm just
going to select this, scale this down,
and I'll bring this right here. So, this
is going to be the upper arm. I'm going
to bring this back. Make sure it's lined
up with the shoulder.
And I'm going to place this right here.
And don't worry, we're going to add
another mesh for the shoulders to cover
up this place. So, don't worry about
that for now. I'm going to select this
part. And I'm just going to scale this
up slightly up. Something like that. I'm
going to select this one. Scale it down
a little bit. All right. I'm going to
add in a mirror modifier. We can select
this view to bring up the Q. Right. And
then we can add in the mirror modifier.
All right. That looks good. I'm going to
select this and I'm just going to adjust
the shape of that. All right. So, this
is going to be the upper arms. I'm going
to add in more details soon, but for
now, that looks fine. I'm going to go
ahead and I'm going to duplicate this.
Shift D to duplicate this. And I'm going
to place it right here. Right now,
you're going to notice that we
transformed this object in object mode.
We normally don't want to do that. So,
right now, you can see that the mirror
modifier is not working properly. So, to
fix that, we want to apply all
transforms. So, Ctrl A is the shortcut.
And then we can apply all transforms.
All right. Now, let's actually make this
look like lower hal. I'm going to go
into edit mode. I'm going to select this
half. So, toggle on X3 to select the
half. So, I can select through the
object too. And S to scale this down.
And I'm just going to move this right
here. Somewhere around here. Okay. I'm
going to select this one. S and Y. Scale
it down a little bit. And I also select
this one. S and Y to scale it down. All
right. Also on our character, we want to
make sure that we have a little bit of a
bend on the lower arm. That way once we
start regain Blender knows how to bend
the arm. So I'm going to select this A
to select all R and Z. I'm going to
rotate this on the Z axis just a little
bit. So something like that. Just to
give this a nice bend on the arm. All
right. Something like that looks good.
I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to
add in a loop cut right here. I'll bring
it all the way here. And I'm just going
to scale this up. So, I'm starting to
shape the lower arm. I'm just going to
scale this up. And I'm going to bring it
around here. Okay. And then I'm going to
add in another loop cut right here. I'll
scale this down. And I'm just going to
bring this up right here. So, you can
start to see we have we're starting to
add those curves to this shape. I'm
going to select this and scale it down a
little bit. So right here, if you notice
from the reference, so I'm just
currently looking at my reference and um
I want to get a shape like this on my
own sculpt. Okay, so that's currently
what I'm using this loop cost to do. So
now that we have that, let's just go
ahead and add in more loop cuts so that
we able to sculpt this out in sculpt
mode. Ctrl R. And I'm just going to add
in three loop cuts here. Another three
loop cuts here. And another three looks
light here. All right, let's use the
grab brush. And then let's just smooth
this out like so.
So that we have that really nice shape
for the lower arms.
Something that looks just like that. All
right, that looks fine. Also, from the
side view, let's just make sure to round
this out a little bit more. Okay. And
now for the side view, I'm going to make
sure that this one is merging nicely
with the upper arm. And let's actually
switch to the upper arm right now and
start flushing out the forms on the
upper arm. So, alt Q to switch that
object. I'm going to go into edit mode.
I'm going to add in some loop cuts. Ctrl
R. And then you can just add in Ctrl R.
We can add in say eight loop cuts right
there. All right. So, that looks good.
And now let's start shaping
the upper arm. I'm going to bring this
out to indicate the muscle structure. So
this is just going to be the bicep. And
that's going to flow nicely into the
lower arm. Okay. I'm going to bring this
down. Make sure that's flowing nicely
with the lower arm. I can switch back to
the lower arm for a bit. And just use
the grab brush to pull this up right
there. And we can bring this out just
like so. So something like this for the
upper arm. That looks nice. Okay. And
don't forget, we don't want to add
details at this stage, but we just want
to make sure that we have the forms in
place at this point. All right. Let's
take a look at this from this view.
Let's make this area work nicely. So,
I'm just going to pull this down just
like so. I'm going to zoom that out. And
then I'm I'm also going to switch to the
lower arm. I'm just going to pull that
back. So something like this looks good
for the lower arm. I'm going to make
sure that these are flowing nicely into
each other. Remember, we don't want this
to like stack on top each other. So I'm
just going to use the grabr brush. I'll
pull this into the lower arm. And then
I'm also going to just pull this up.
Something like that. Okay. And I'm going
to make sure that the bicep end in a V
shape like it is on the lower arm. So
I'm just using the grab brush and I'm
just pulling that into place.
All right. Something that looks like
this. You can always switch between
these objects to make sure that
everything is flowing nicely together.
All right. for the lower arm to make
this look a little bit better. Something
I like to do is just use the line
project brush. Selecting that for my
glue, right? And then can just use a
line project brush to just slice out
this area right here. Okay, that looks
good for the lower arm. Okay. All right.
Now, I think that the arms are a little
bit too big. So, I'm just going to go
into edit mode. I'm going to select all
of this and I'm just going to scale it
down a little bit. So, something like
that. And I'm just going to select these
ones.
And I'm just going to elongate the lower
arm just a little bit more. I can add in
a low cut here so that once I go into
skull mode, I'm actually able to sculpt
on this and shape this nicely. All
right. This looks good for the lower
arm. I'm going to rotate this into place
and I'm going to place that right here.
Okay. So now to actually make this look
good and to finalize the blockout, let's
add in one more object. This is going to
be the shoulders. So I'm going to add in
a round cube object. I'll go into edit
mode from the front view. I'm just going
to place this right here. And then I'm
going to scale this down. And I'll just
move this. Make sure is where the
shoulder is. All right. And now let's
mirror this over to the other side. Also
in my P right, I have this I have the
mirror added to my P, right? So if you
don't have that, you can just add that
again to your P right. So initially we
added the mirror modifier in object
mode. We also have to do that in edit
mode to make sure we have that in our P
right menu. So just add that to your Q,
right? And then you can add in a mirror
modifier. And now let's go ahead and
let's sculpt in the shape of the
shoulders. I'm going to go back into
sculpt mode. And then I'm just going to
pull this out like so.
And then I'm also going to pull this
into the arms or the shoulders. We want
something that looks like this.
And that's flowing nicely into the upper
arm. So, I'm just going to use the grab
brush to pull this
object into shape. So, something like
this is what we want for the lower arm.
And since this is a female character, we
don't want the shoulders to be too
massive. So, I'm just going to adjust
the shapes of the hands. I'm going to
select this. Going to edit mode. And I'm
just going to bring this up a little
bit. All right. Now, let's adjust the
shape of the shoulders. Okay. something
that looks like that from the side view.
We definitely don't want this to be
happening. So, let's make sure that this
flows nicely into the back of the
character. I'm going to use the grab
brush to just pull this back.
And then I'm going to make sure that
that's flowing nicely into the shape of
the torso.
Okay. And then I'm also going to adjust
this to make sure that this is coming
and overlapping the upper arm.
Okay. Also at the front here, we don't
want this rounded shape. I'm going to
actually use the script brush for this.
So, this brush right here. And you can
just clean this out.
And then I'm going to smooth that out.
And then I'm going to make sure that the
shoulder right here is just overlapping
the upper arm. Something like this. And
it's being pulled into the chest of the
character.
All right. Something like this looks
good for the shoulders.
And I'm just going to adjust the shape.
Take a look at it from all angles and
make sure that it actually looks nice.
All right. For the back right here, I'm
just going to use the crease polish
brush to start to add in that line at
the back. I'll also do the same right
here.
And I also do the same right here. Okay.
I'm going to use the grab brush to pull
this out a little bit.
Nice. And we can adjust the shape of
this lower puzzle.
I'm also going to adjust the shapes of
the legs.
All right.
And now to finalize the blockout, let's
add in a simple shape for the hands. So,
we're not going to sculpt out the hands
there. There's a whole chapter dedicated
to sculpting the hands. So, right now,
we're just going to block out or make a
little shape for the hands. Just like
this. So, I'm going to add in another
round cube. And then I'm going to go
into edit mode and I'm going to bring
this right here. You can scale it down
and place that where the hand would be.
And then I'll go into sculpt mode. I'll
use the line project brush from my
graph. Right. And I'm just going to
slice this. I want to slice the upper
half. So I'm just going to slice that.
And I want to also slice this bottom
half. Something like that. Okay. And
then we can go into edit mode. I'm going
to rotate this. Actually, I'm going to
just scale this up a tiny bit. And then
I'm going to rotate this and place it
right here. Okay. So this is going to be
the shape. Just a simple shape for the
arm. And when you're sculpting, you want
to also make sure to look at your sculpt
from all angles so that you don't have
something that looks like this. So, I'm
just going to use the grabr brush to
pull this out.
Okay. And we sure to just shift this.
Make sure that looks nice from all
angles. All right. Now, let's go back to
the hands. For the hands, we're just
going to make a simple rectangular shape
to indicate the shape of the arms. Just
like this. I'm going to clean this.
Let's use the grab brush. And then let's
just indicate the shape of the hands or
of the palm. Something like this. And
then I'm just going to smooth over this
object.
Also smooth over this object. Okay. I'm
going to use the inflate brush. I for
the inflate brush. You can search for
that right here. And you should find the
inflate brush. And then I'm just going
to puff out this side of the palm and
also this side of the palm. So right
here, this is where the thumb is going
to come out from. We can use the grabers
to just pull this out just to indicate
make an indication of that.
And something like this looks good,
right? I'll make sure that these are
flowing nicely into each other. So I'm
just going to make sure that the arm
blockout or the hand blockout is flowing
nicely into the lower arm. Just like
that.
All right. And then let's mirror this
over to the other side. I'm going to add
in a mirror modifier. All right. And now
we have most things in place. And at
this point, let me just delete this.
Okay. At this point, I'm going to just
be taking a look at my reference. And we
want to
translate what we see on the reference
to our sculpt. So right now we have most
things in place. The proportions might
not be exactly correct. So this is the
point where we just go in and we make
those proportions correct. All right. So
I'm going to start with the legs of my
character right here. I'm just going to
select all of this and make sure one of
these objects is the active object. So
you're going to see a yellow line on one
of these objects. So just make sure it's
on any of these objects. If it's not on
any of those objects and you select this
and you go into edit mode, you probably
have another object as your active
object and you have an object added to
the edit mode that you probably did not
want in the edit mode. So just make sure
that one of these objects is your active
object and then go into edit mode and
then I can select this. I can probably
scale this up and bring this down. I can
also scale this on the X axis to make
the legs less thinner. So something like
this. And I'm going to adjust the shape
of the torso a lot more at this stage.
Okay. I'm I'm just going to use the grab
brush. I'm going to grab this out.
And then I'm also going to bring this
out like so. For the shoulders, we can
just bring this up and out also like
this.
Okay, you can start making sure to
define the shape of the ships. Making
sure that the ships are flowing nicely
with the legs. Okay, something like
that. Nice. That looks good. And also
from the side view, we want to make sure
that all of these are working nicely
together.
Nice. That looks good. That's starting
to look really, really nice. I like how
that's looking. Okay, I'm going to just
make some tiny adjustments right here to
make sure that everything is looking
good on the blockout. And for you, you
can take the next 10 minutes or the next
20 minutes to just take a look, observe
your reference and try to translate what
you see on your reference
to your sculpt to the best of your
abilities. So, I'm just going to scale
this head up a tiny bit to start to
match the proportions. And I might need
to move the shoulders in a little bit.
I'm going to go into edit mode. And I'm
just going to bring this back into the
character a little bit more. And I think
I made the upper hand or the lower hand,
the lower arm a little bit too long. So,
I'm just going to bring this in.
Okay. Something like that. And then I'm
just going to bring this back in also.
All right. Nice, nice, nice. That is
good. And then let's just bring this
down.
All right. This is looking good for the
blockout of this character. So for you
just stay the next 10 minutes or you can
actually just take a break right now and
come back in the next 30 minutes and you
definitely see some things that you want
to change on your blockout. So before
moving to the next chapter just make
sure that you lo the shapes of your
blockouts. I'm also going to do some
more adjustments and some more
refinement to my own blockouts and I'll
show you everything I did in the next
chapter. And also if at this point
you've already saved your file, just go
ahead and save your file. I should have
mentioned that earlier. So we're just
going to name this block out. I'm going
to leave it on my desktop for now. I'm
going to name this blockout. And I'm
going to save my Blender file. All
right. So this is a blockout. Make sure
you're happy with your blockout before
moving on to the next chapter. So let's
go back to just summarize everything
that we said. So now we have been able
to create a simple blockout for our
character. And to summarize this video,
we understand what blocking out is.
We understand why blocking out our
characters is important. It's important
so that we can have solid foundation. We
know how to set up Blender for
sculpting. And we also know how to block
out a character. So that's everything
that we learned in this video. If you
need any extra help, as usual, you can
join the stylish character academy where
I'm going to be holding your hand every
step of the process to make sure that
you get it right. And if you're loving
the master class so far, you can go
ahead and leave a review of the master
class on Trust Pilot. The link is going
to be below this video. And with that,
I'm going to see you guys in the next
chapter where we are going to get
started with sculpting the face and the
head of this character. I'll see you
guys in the next one.
Welcome to chapter 3. In this chapter,
this one really exciting. We are going
to be sculpting the face and the head of
our character. Before we start
sculpting, we are going to take a look
at face proportions. And then we'll take
a look at the forms of the head. And
then we'll take a look at the forms of
the eyes, the eyelids, the nose, the
mouth, and the ears. And then we
actually go ahead and sculpt the face
and the head. So, let's dive right in.
Make sure to share this class with
someone. Let's help more artists create
work that they are actually proud of.
And a little bit of warning, as of right
now, this is the most important video in
the entire master class for you. Make
sure you watch the entire video. Don't
skip around and don't jump around. So,
let's dive right into it. And starting
off, we're going to start off with the
face proportions. And the reason I want
to show you guys this is so that you
have a clear understanding of how the
face works. So that you'll be able to
sculpt any character. Once you know how
the proportion should be, it's going to
be easy to sculpt different characters.
So, let's start off with the ey line.
And for the ey line, you want to keep in
mind that the ey line sits halfway
between the top of the head and the
bottom of the jaw. So, right here, this
is the top of the head. This is the
bottom of the jaw. If we draw a straight
line down here and we find the halfway
point somewhere around here. So this is
the halfway point. This right here is
going to be our ey line. So inside of
Blender, let's say you've blocked out
and you wanted to start sculpting, the
first place I like to start is with the
ey line. And to find the ey line, just
go from the top of the head to the
bottom of the jaw and divide that into
two. That is going to give you your ey
line. This landmark is going to be a
foundation for placing all facial
features cuz when you have the ey line
in place that's going to tell you where
you need to place other facial features.
So that's how you find the ey line. Now
let's take a look at the brow line and
the bottom of the nose. And to find this
one, we are going to choose an arbitrary
point for the hairline. So let's just
take right here to be the hairline of
our character. Let's say right there is
the hairline. And then from the hairline
right there to the bottom of the jaw.
I'm just going to draw this out. If I
draw a straight line and we divide this
into three equal halves. So right here
and also right here. So this is one/3
and this is also one/3. Right here is
our brow line and right here is going to
be the bottom of the nose. So this how
you can find the brow line. And also the
midsection that's the brow line and the
bottom of the nose is going to define
where the ear is going to sit right
here. So you can see how that's it. This
might be different based on your own
character but for most generic cases is
what you're going to be dealing with.
Then if you also take this towards the
back. So let me just draw this going
towards the back and also from right
here. You're also going to notice right
here at the back. So where the bar line
is at the back, this is where the head
starts to change direction and start to
merge nicely with the neck just like
this. So make sure to keep this one in
mind. I'm going to record this back to
our memory when we actually get started
with sculpting. You also notice right
there. And that's where the ear sits.
Just like that. Okay. So that's for the
brow line and the bottom of the nose.
Now let's take a look at the side
profile proportions. And this one is
very important because most beginners
are going to make mistake at this stage
and you're going to keep like the eyes
and nose you're going to like make it
flat if you don't know these
proportions. So let me show you what the
side profile proportions are. So from
the corner of the eye which is right
here to the front edge of the eye which
is right here. So if I just draw a
straight line this right here is one
unit. And then from the front edge of
the eye which is right there to the nose
bridge this is the same length. So from
right here to right here is the same
length. And then from the bridge of the
nose to the tip of the nose is also
another 1 minute. You want to make sure
to use this side profile proportions so
that the face doesn't look flat. If
you're keeping this side profile
proportions in place the face your face
is not going to look flat. So always
make sure to keep this in mind. Now
let's move on to the placement of the
mouth
from the bottom of the nose. So that's
right here
to the bottom of the jaw which is right
here. If we divide this into two equal
halves. So that's somewhere around here.
Right here. This is half. This is going
to be the bottom or this midpoint is
going to mark the bottom of our lips. So
the lips is going to be right here just
like this. That's a really nice shape of
the lips, but you get the idea. So right
there is how we find the placement for
the mouth. And then let's take a look at
the spacing in between the eyes. So the
eye spacing and this one is very key.
You want to make sure to always keep
this in mind. One eye width. So that's
from right here to right here
is going to be the same as from right
here to right here.
And it's also going to be the same from
right here to right here.
Just like this. You want to make sure to
keep this in mind. For stylized
character, it might be a little bit
different depending on your character,
but for most cases, this is what you're
going to be dealing with. And you want
to make sure to keep this eye spacing in
mind. And finally, let's take a look at
the width of the mouth. So for the width
of the mouth or to find how wide the
mouth is going to be, the corners of the
mouth should not go past the midpoint of
the eyes. So this is where the iris
would be somewhere around here. And if I
don't draw a straight line from right
there, we don't want this corners of the
mouth that's right here to go past this
point. So the corners of the mouth
should not go past the midpoint of the
eyes. All these proportions that we just
looked at, I'm going to recall it back
to our memory once you actually go into
Blender and actually get started with
sculpting. So you don't have to memorize
everything right now. Okay, let's take a
look at the forms of the head and we are
going to simplify it. So the primary
head forms, you just want to keep in
mind that the head is made up of two
main parts which are the cranium and the
jaw. For any head you're sculpting at
all, just break it down into very simple
shapes, which is going to be the cranium
right here and the jaw, which is just
like a wedge attached to the cranium. So
we have cranium and then we have this
wedge attached for any character, any
head size or any head shape. cranium and
a jaw just like that. Breaking it into
these simple forms is going to really
help us simplify sculpting when we get
started with sculpting. And once you
break it into those simple forms, then
you can go ahead and sculpt the planes
of the head. And the planes of the head
are going to help guide the facial
facial placement and also give us some
clarity on the forms. So once we've
broken down the head into the cranium
and the jaw, then we'll go ahead and
sculpt in the planes of the head. And
the planes of the head I like to include
when I'm sculpting are right here, the
forehead. And then we have the temple
region which is on both sides. So that's
just like the side of the head. And then
we have the ey line and also the brow
line. And then we have the side of the
face right here. And then we have the
chin. I don't consider the nose as a
plane because nose comes in a lot of
different shapes, shapes, forms, and
sizes. So, we're just going to add on
the nose. Once we can get the forehead,
the temple, the side of the face, and
the chin in place, and then everything
is going to come together really nicely.
So, those are the place of the head that
you should keep in mind. Now, let's take
a look at the phones of the eyes and the
eyelids. You want to remember that the
iris sits inside of sockets. The eyelids
don't sit on a flat surface. And that's
why we looked at the planes of the head
earlier. So if you're able to get this
type of shape, so if you're able to
properly sculpt out the ey line and the
brow line, you're not going to run into
this issue where you have the eye on a
flat surface. You always just want to
make sure to keep in mind that the eye
sits in eye sockets just like this. And
then let's take a look at the structure
of the eyelids. You want to remember
always that the eyelids wrap around the
eyeball. The eyelids are not flat. They
wrap around the eyeball. And when
sculpting the eyelids, there are three
edges I want you to keep in mind. If you
can get these three edges to look right,
the eyelids are always going to look
nice. So, first off, you want to keep in
mind this contact edge with the eyeball.
So, this one right here. Let me just
draw that again. This one right here.
And then we want to keep the eyelid
fold. So, this one right here. And then
we want to keep this edge that
transitions into the face. If you can
get these three edges to look right on
your eye sculpt, sculpting eyes is going
to be really easy for you. Let me also
just illustrate how the eyelids work
from the side. So this is the center of
the eyeball. So the eyelid radiates out
from the center right here.
Also for the lower eyelid. So right
here, this point is the same as this
one. This point right here is the same
as this one. And this point right here
is the same as this one. Also at the
bottom here, this one right here the
same as this one. This point right here
is the same as this one. And this point
right here is the same as this one. So
keep this in mind for when we are
sculpting the eyelids. I'll show you how
we are going to do all of this inside of
Blender. Now let's take a look at the
forms of the nose. And we're going to
keep it really simple for the forms of
the nose. So you can simplify the nose
into a rounded triangular block just
like this. And then once you have this B
shape in place, details are going to
come once the main forms is in place. So
don't over complicate the nose. Just
think of it as a rounded triangular
block just like this. And then you can
go ahead and add in details just like
you see on this reference right here.
And at this stage using reference is
going to be really important cuz
reference is going to help you maintain
believable shapes and proportions on the
nose. Now let's take a look at the forms
of the mouth. You always want to think
of the forms of the mouth as
threedimensional.
The lips wrap around the teeth. So just
like the way we mentioned for the
eyelids, the eyelids wrap around the
eyeball that also the same thing that
you want to remember that the lips wrap
around the teeth just like so. So you
want to make sure that the mouth has
depth before you start sculpting the
lips. The mouth is not flat. So you can
see from this reference by Glu to start
sculpting the lips, make sure you just
bulk up the area where the mouth is
going to be because the leaks wrap
around the teeth. Then you can go ahead
and sculpt in the planes and then you
can add in details on those planes and
then you can refine those details right
here. I'm going to show you how we do
all of this once you start sculpting the
face inside of Blender. Now let's take a
look at the forms of the ear. For the
air placement, we want to make sure that
the ear sit between the brow line and
the bottom of the nose. So right here,
this is our brow line right here and
this is the bottom of the nose. The ear
is going to fit right into that area.
And then the shape of the ear. I want
you to think of the ear as a wedge
attached to the head from both the front
view right here. So this just a wedge, a
triangular wedge attached to the ear
also from the top view. So just think of
it as this kind of triangular shape. And
then if you want to add details on here,
just think of a question mark and a Y
shape. So right here we have this
question mark shape which is like the
rim of the ear. And then for the inside
of the ear just think of it as a Y shape
like so. And that way you'll be able to
add details into the ear. And also
because ear comes in a lot of different
variations, shapes and sizes. You want
to always make sure you're using
reference at this stage. So reference is
going to be important when you're
sculpting the ear. So at this
checkpoint, let's go ahead uh let's dive
into Blender and let's cop the face and
the head for our character. Okay, so
this is where we left off in the last
video. I did make some changes to the
blockout, but for the most part, this is
where we left off. All right, to start
sculpting the face, I have my references
here, so I'm always going to be viewing
my references. And then I have this view
port at the top here so that I'll be
able to compare what I have on my sculpt
with my references right here. And then
this is my main workspace. To get
started with sculpting, I'm going to
select the head blockout. And then I'm
going to go into sculpt mode right here.
And then let's add in some more
resolution so that we can actually start
sculpting. So let me just recall what we
said earlier. So we wanted to break the
head up into the cranium and the jaw and
we have been able to do that with
blockout. So we are going to now move on
to sculpting the planes of the head. And
to do that we need to add some more
resolution. So I'm just going to go
ahead and some around 0.04
or 0.05 should be fine. And Ctrl R to
remesh this. Let me just make sure I
turn on screencast keys so you can see
all the shortcuts I'm pressing right
here. Then once you have added in those
resolution, I'm just going to go ahead
and hold down shift and just smooth out
everything just like this.
Okay, this looks good. And I'm just
going to go ahead. I can press slash on
the keyboard to isolate this. And I'm
just going to go ahead and keep on
smoothing out these shapes like so. Make
sure everything looks good. Okay. I'm
going to define the separation between
the jaw and the cranium a little bit
more. I'm going to use the crease polish
brush for this. And then I'm just going
to mark out that separation between the
jaw and the cranium right here. Okay.
Something just like that. And now let's
go ahead and let's start sculpting the
planes of the head. We are going to use
those proportions that we talked about
earlier. So to find the ey line, I
always like to start with the ey line.
I'm going to start I'm going to find the
top of the head. Go all the way down to
the jaw right here. And then the halfway
mark which is somewhere around here.
That's where our ey line is going to be.
So I'm just going to use the crease
polish brush to mark out the ey line
just like so. Then I'm going to clean
this. So just hold down control and
clean this away.
Okay. And now I'm going to continue
defining that ey line. So I'll just mark
it to somewhere around here. We don't
want to go all the way to the back. I'm
just going to mark it till I get
somewhere around here.
All right. Something like this looks
good. For the ey line, we want to make
sure that we make some space for the
nose. The nose is going to sit somewhere
around here. So, I'm just going to use
the grab brush and I'm just going to
pull all of this in just like so. So
that we have some space for the nose
right here. So, I'm just going to pull
this in. And our eyes are going to sit
right here. Okay. The next thing that we
want to define is the brow line. To
start indicating the shape of the brow
line, I'm just going to hold down shift
and I'm going to smooth out this area
right here. So, just holding down shift,
I'm going to smooth out this area. And
that has started to form the brow line
for us. That's good. I'm also going to
hold down shift and just smooth out this
area around the face right here. Okay.
Something like this is starting to look
good. Let's see if we have the eyebrow
line. So based on the proportions that
we talked about earlier. So right here
going to use that for the hairline. And
then all the way to the jaw if I draw a
straight line and divide this into three
equal halves. So something like this. My
lines are not very straight but that's
fine. So if we divide this into three
equal halves somewhere around here. This
is where our eyebrow is going to be.
Okay. Let me just clean all of these
to somewhere around here. So, I'm just
going to use the smooth brush and I'm
just going to smooth that out. And right
here is where our eyebrow line is going
to be. So, I'm just going to use the
crease polish brush. Holding down
control, I'm going to mark out the ey
line. Sorry, the eyebrow line just like
so. Okay, that looks good. Now, let's
define the temple region, which is the
side of the head. I'm going to use the
screw brush and I'm going to pl out the
side of the head just like so. So, this
is going to be the temple region right
here.
Just using the SC brush to clean out the
side of the head. Okay, that looks good.
I'm also going to pl out this side right
here.
Nice. And I'm just going to smooth out
this area so that make sure that that
place is flat. I'm not going to affect
the ey line. Make sure not to affect the
ey line. And if you affect the ey line,
you can just use the crease polish brush
and then just go over it once again.
Okay, this is starting to look good.
Let's go ahead and I'm going to define
the side of the face. I'm going to use
the script brush for this also. I'm just
going to pl out the side of the face.
Something like this. So coming from
right here, I'm just going to pl out the
side of the face just like this. Okay.
And then we can also go ahead and mark
out the chin. I'm going to use the
crease polish brush to just mark this
out very simply. Just like this. And now
at this stage, I'm going to compare what
I have on my sculpt with my reference.
On my reference, I can see that she has
much wider cheeks. So, I'm just going to
use the grab brush. I'm just going to
pull this out a little bit more to
something that looks like this. should
be fine. And then for the eyebrow, I'm
going to just pull this in
like so. So that that looks good from
the side right here. So I'm just always
taking a look at the reference. Also
comparing what I have here with my
reference. Okay. Something like this
looks good. Let's go ahead and let's add
in the nose. So see the way we simplify
the planes of the head. You don't really
need to go very detailed like the image
I showed earlier. I always simplify it
for my own characters. So, let's go
ahead and add in the nose right here.
I'm going to go back into objects mode
and I'm going to add in a long tip. So,
remember we added this earlier to our
key favorites. You can find it right
here. If you don't see that in your key
favorite, you can go up to add and under
mesh, you're going to be able to find
the round cube option. All right, let's
go into edit mode. I'll go from the side
view. I'm just going to scale this down.
I'll bring it to the face right here.
Place it right here. I'm going to rotate
this something like so. I'll just place
it where the nose will probably be.
Okay, this looks good. Let's go into
sculpt mode. And now we can further
adjust and refine the shape of the nose.
I'm going to make sure to turn on
Xmmetry. And then with the grab brush,
I'm just going to pull this right here
into the face. So just like this. I'm
going to pull this into the face just
like this. And then I'm going to bring
this out like so. So we want a
triangular shape for the nose from the
bottom view. And then something that
looks like this. So, I'm just taking a
look at my reference right now to know
which shape of the nose I'm going to use
or which shape of nose I'm going to use
for this character. And something like
this looks good for my own character. I
think I'm going to just use the grab
brush and pull this down just like so.
Something like that fits my character a
little bit better. And I'm also going to
go ahead. I'll use the throw brush in
this case. And I'm going to mark out the
no shoot. So, I'm just going to hold on
control and then I'm going to mark out
the no shoes like this. And then I can
use the grab brush and just push this
into shape a little bit more like this.
Okay, something like this is looking
good so far. And with this in place, can
actually go ahead and we can merge the
nose with the head. I'm going to select
the nose first. Then I'm going to select
the head and then Ctrl G to join these
two together. I'm going to go into
sculpt mode. And now let's mesh
everything together because these are
still two separate objects. So I'm going
to increase the mesh resolution.
0.03
should be fine. And then CtrlR to reme
mesh everything together. Just like
this. I'm going to use the clear shield
brush. And I'm just going to blend the
transition between the nose and the rest
of the face. And notice how I'm just
adding in volumes going towards the
eyebrow like this. So just using the
clay shoot brush, adding some volume
going towards the eyebrow. And then you
can hold down shift and smooth this out.
Also on the side, I'm going to add in
some volume right here to make sure that
the nose blends nicely with the rest of
the face. Just going to hold down shift
and smooth all of this out. Just like
so. We can also define the eyebrow line
with a crease polish brush. Just like
this. Okay, I like how this is looking
right now. And before I go any further,
I'll go ahead and I'm going to add in
the eyeballs. I'm going to go into
object mode, shift a mesh, and I'm going
to add in a UV sphere. On this UV
sphere, I'm going to rotate it on the
X-axis by 90°.
I'll scale it down and I'll just place
it right here. Somewhere around here.
And then I'm going to move this forward
like so.
And we can just move this into place.
Something that looks like this. I'm
going to right click and shoot this
smooth. So that that looks smooth. And
then we want to mirror this over to the
other side. For me, I've added my mirror
modifier to my PV. Right. If you want to
do that, you can come to modifiers here
and then you can search for mirror.
Right click and it should say add to
right. So once you add that to your key,
right, if you come and press Q, you're
going to see the mirror option. Don't
worry about all these other options.
I'll tell you when to add all of this to
your key. Right. So I'm just going to
add the mirror modifier. And then I'm
going to select the mirror object as the
head right here. And now we start to see
the eyes coming into play. something
like this. And then you can just adjust
it. Make sure that that is looking good
right here. And from my reference, I can
see that there's a lot of space between
both eyes. So I'm just going to make
sure to space that out.
Something more like this. And now I can
go into skull mode. And with the grab
brush, I'm just going to prepare the
area where the eyes are going to be. So
I'm just pushing this back. So the
eyelids are going to be right here. I'm
also going to just push this back. Hold
down shift and then I'm going to smooth
this out. All right. Something like this
looks good for the eyelids. And also on
my character at this point I can see
that this edge is higher than this part
of the eye. So I'm just going to use the
grabr brush. I'm going to pull this part
higher and I'm going to bring this part
lower. So this is just a specific thing
for my character. You can see how the
eyes of your character are looking. And
then you can go ahead and make this
adjustments for your own character. All
right, let's go ahead and let's sculpt
in the eyelids. We're going to need a
lot more resolution. So, I'm just going
to increase the resolution. I'll go
about 0.02
right there. Should be fine. And Ctrl R
to mesh everything together. I'm just
going to before I start adding in the
eyelids, I'll just go ahead hold down
shift and smooth out everything that we
have so far. To add in the eyelids, it's
very simple. We are going to use a draw
brush. So V for the draw brush. So
that's this brush right here. And then
we can just draw over the eyelid just
like so. So I'm just drawing over the
eyelid like this.
Okay. Something like that for the upper
eyelid. And now I'm taking a look at the
shape of the eyes on my reference. And
then I'm just going to use the grab
brush to push that into shape. So on my
reference it looks something more like
this. So, I'm just going to push this
into place like so. And something like
that looks good. We are still going to
come back to refine this a lot more. And
I'm just going to go ahead and do the
lower eyelids. So, still with the drop
brush, I'm going to go ahead and just
draw in the lower eyelids like so.
Holding down brush and just drawing out
the eyelids just like this. And now we
can use the grab brush and further put
the eyelids in the shape that we
actually want them to be. So I'm just
going to bring this down a little bit
more for my own character. Something
more like this looks good. And I'm going
to pull this up slightly higher. Okay.
And on my own character, this is an
Asian character. And if I take a look at
the eyelids right here, the upper eyelid
is basically non-existent. So, I'm just
going to hold down shift right here. And
then I'm just going to smooth out this
right here so that it looks more like
the character and the reference we're
going for. I just zoom out and take a
look at my original reference right
here. So, this is why you need to have
references so that you can know exactly
the shapes that you need to sculpt in
for the face of your character. All
right. Remember those three edges that
we talked about earlier when we're
looking at the forms of the eyelids? Now
we are going to go ahead and define
them. I'm going to use the crease for
polish brush. Shift C is the shortcut.
And then while holding down control, I'm
just going to define the edge of the
eyelid right here. Something like this.
Holding down control to define this eyid
fold right here. And then to make sure
that this edge looks good, I'm going to
use the script brush. And then I'm just
going to pl out that under side of the
eyelid like so. Just plain it out.
Something like this. And then I'm going
to use the grab brush. I'm going to pull
this back. Make sure that the eyelids
are wrapping around the eyeball.
Something more like this. And I'll go
ahead and do the same for the lower
eyelids. I'll use the crease polish
brush to mark out this edge right here.
holding down control to mark out this
edge right here.
Something like this. And then we can use
the screw brush. I'm just going to pl
out this area right here to make sure
that that looks flat.
Okay, something more like that. I'll use
the grab brush to pull this into place.
Make sure that that is wrapping around
the eyeballs. Just like so. And then I'm
going to use the crease polish brush
once again. And I'm just going to define
this edge that transitions into the face
right here. So just using the crease
polish brush to define that edge right
here. So something like this looks good
for the eyes on my character. And I'm
just going to use the grab brush. Pull
this eyes into more of a shape that I
actually like. And something like this
looks good for me. All right. So, right
here on the face, I'm just going to
smooth out this transitions right here
to make sure everything is looking
really nice. So, just holding down shift
and smoothing out this transitions. And
right now, I'm noticing that nose has to
be way smaller for my character. So, I'm
just going to use the grab brush and I'm
just going to pull this something more
like this. And also at the side of the
nose from the side profile, I'll make
sure I have this nice curve going into
the forehead. That's always nice for
especially for female characters to make
sure it looks good. And then I'm just
going to adjust the shape of the nose
right here. You can also make this
smaller from the front view. I just pull
this closer. And I'll hold down shift
and smooth out everything. And then for
the side of the nose, I'm just going to
pull this out. Something like this. And
I'm going to define the no shoes a
little bit more with the crease polish
brush. I'm going to define the nos right
here. So just pressing down and defining
those edges right there. And I'm also
going to do the same right here. And I'm
going to make this nose a little bit
more rounded from the bottom and also
from right here. And you can hold down
shift and just smooth all of these out.
Okay, this looks good. I'm noticing
right here on my reference right here
the brow the shape of the brows. I'm
also going to go ahead I'm going to
start to use the crease polish brush to
start to mark that out to something more
like this. Okay, that looks good. And
something like this here is starting to
look nice. I'm going to define the chin
a little bit more. I'll use the crease
polish brush to mark this out. Just like
so. And we can definitely adjust play
around with the shape of the chin. I'm
going to use the grab brush. Bring this
right here. And I'm also going to just
bring this right here. Something more
like this for the shape of the chin.
Looks good for my own character. So, at
this point, I'm just taking a look at my
reference and determining the changes
that I need to make. Right. But for now,
something like this looks really, really
nice. Now, let's go ahead and let's
sculpt in the lips and the mouth for our
character. I remember when we're looking
at the palms of the mouth earlier, I
mentioned that the mouth doesn't sit on
a flat surface. Right now, this is
really flat. So, let's use the clear
street brush. And then, we're just going
to add in some volume right here to make
sure that the mouth wraps around the
teeth. I'm going to add in some more
volume right here with the crease polish
brush.
Okay. And holding down shift, I'm just
going to smooth all of this out. Just
like so. Also going to add some more
volume right here. All right. And I'm
going to smooth all of this out. Okay.
Something like this looks nice. From the
side profile, this looks good. And also
from the front profile, this looks good.
And now to start spotting the mouth, I'm
going to define the corners of the
mouth. I'm going to use the crease
polish brush for this. And we mentioned
earlier that we don't want the corners
of the mouth to go past the middle of
the eye. So this is the middle of the
eye. This is where the iris to actually
be. And if we draw a straight line down.
So we don't want the corner of the mouth
to go past this area. So I'm just going
to place the corners of the mouth
somewhere around here.
So I'm just using the crease polish
brush to mark out that area right there.
And I'm just taking a look at this.
Yeah, I think where we place that looks
good. If you don't like the placement,
you can use the air brush to pull this
down or to pull this up. And also
something I like to do is just to pull
back the corners of the mouth. Once
again, just to indicate that the mouth
and the lips wrap around the teeth. I
can also just use the grab brush to just
pull this out a little bit more. All
right, I like how this is picking. Now,
let's go ahead and let's sculpt the lips
for our character. I'm going to use the
crease polish brush and I'm just going
to draw a straight line from the corners
of the mouth to the center of the face
right there. So, something like this
looks good. Just a straight line from
the corners of the mouth to the middle
of the face. Something like this. And
now, let's go ahead and let's define the
lips. And at this point, if you think
that where you place the mouse is a
little bit too high or too low, you can
use the grab brush and just pull this
down. For me, I think it's a little bit
too high. I'm just going to pull this
down. Something like this. Okay, this
looks good. I'm going to go ahead and
let's sculpt the upper lip. To sculpt
the upper lip, I'm going to use the
crease polish brush. And while holding
down control, I'm just going to mark out
the edge of the lip. Just like this.
Okay. Something like this. The lips is a
little bit too flat right now. So, I'm
just going to use the grab brush to grab
this out. Just like this. So, just using
the grab brush to grab this out.
And for the upper lip, you want to make
sure that that sits in front of the
lower lip. So, I'm just going to pull
this out a little bit more. We can also
add some volume right here. So, I'm just
pulling out the lips. Make sure that we
have some curvature on the lips right
here. So that looks good for the upper
lips. And then for the lower lips, a
really simple way I like to mark out the
lower lips, just use the in place brush
to mark out this area right here. And if
we smooth out these corners, so just
holding out shift and smooth out these
corners, we already start define the
lower lips. We can define it even more
if we use the crease polish brush and
just hold down control and mark out
these edges right here. holding on
control to mark out these edges. Then we
can further use the drag brush to pull
the lips into place.
Okay, so something like this looks good.
And I'm just going to drag all of this
down just a little bit more to fit the
reference. And at this point, we have
the eyes, nose, and mouth in place. Now,
at this point, we're going to need to be
taking a good look at our reference. We
need to start making everything work
nicely together. So at this point, I'm
just going to adjust the shape of the
jaw.
Something more like this. And then I can
also just bring this down a little bit
more. So I'm just taking a look at my
reference and making the changes that I
need to make on my sculpt somewhere
around here. Need some refinements. I
can also add some volume to the cheeks
right here. I can use the crease brush
and just add in some volume right here.
Something like this. And then hold down
shift and then smooth all of this out.
Just like so. Holding down shift to
smooth out these volumes right here. I'm
also going to smooth out right here.
Hold down shift and smooth of this out
to make sure we have a nice transition
on the lip. I'm going to adjust the
shape of the lips a little bit. I'm
going to pull this up. Once I'm going to
pull this up a little bit more. And at
this stage, I'm going to increase my
immers resolution and actually refine
everything that we have so far. I'm
going to increase it about 0.012.
Somewhere around there should be fine.
And then Ctrl R to the mesh what we
have. And at this point, we can use the
crease polish brush to define the line
of the mouth right here.
Something like this. And then we can
also define the corners of the mouth
right here. I'm holding down shift to
smooth out any surface irregularities.
Just some things like this. And then I
can also change and adjust the shape of
the jaw. So I'm just going to pull this
up a little bit more to fit the shape of
my reference. Something more like this.
I'm going to hold down shift around here
and then refine the shapes of the no
shoes. So just using the crease polish
brush to refine the shape around the
nostrils. I'm also going to take this
towards the bottom. And then for the no
shoot, you can use the draw brush to dig
this in a little bit more. Right there.
And then we can define this edge at the
no shoe. Just like this.
Something like this looks good. And I'm
also going to define right here for the
nose. I'm going to pull this into the
nose a little bit more. Just like this.
And then I can adjust the overall shape
of the nose. Making sure that that looks
nice. I'm also just going to smooth out
right here. We want to make sure
everything is looking good. And I can
start to just remove this ey line that
we had earlier. So I'm just going to use
the clay shoes brush. And I'm going to
add some volume right here just to start
to remove that transition of the ey line
that we marked out earlier. And then I
can go ahead and just smooth this out.
Something like this. Also, at this
stage, something that I like to do is to
go into object mode. I'm going to select
the eyeballs and we're going to color in
the iris. To color in the iris, I'm
going to go into edit mode. I'm going to
select this vertex and I'm going to
press control and plus on the numpad to
select more. And once that selected, you
can go into vertex paint mode. You can
turn on this paint mask to just isolate
those faces that we painted or that we
selected in edit mode. And then we can
just paint this in just like so. If you
go back into object mode, the color is
going to disappear. Just come up here
under view port shading. And then you
want to change the object color to
attribute so that you actually see those
colors. And then we can just rotate this
eyes to actually fit
the character. Something more like that.
I'll also change the viewboard shading
to attribute right here. And something
like this is starting to look good. So
with the iris in place, we're going to
have a better feel for the character.
Something more like this. I'm going to
go back into sculpt mode on the
character and refine the eyelids a
little bit more. So just using the
crease polish brush to refine the shape
of the eyelid
like this. Also holding down control to
define this edge of the eyelid right
here. And also this upper edge right
here.
Something like this. Then I'm going to
hold down shift to smooth all of this
out. Hold down control to smooth all of
this out. Just like so. Okay. I like how
this is looking right now. I'm going to
smooth out this area of the eyebrows a
little bit more to fit the shapes I have
on my reference. And from the front
view, I'm going to make this jaw little
more pointed. Something like this. And I
can also just go in and add in some more
volume to the cheek area right here.
There's a lot of volume right here. And
I'm just going to adjust this to fit the
shape of my reference. Something more
like this. Now that we have all these in
place, something else I also like to do
is to go ahead and add in the eyebrows
and the eyelashes. To add in the
eyebrows and the eyelashes, we can go
into object mode, shift a mesh. Let's
add in a plane. With this plane, I'm
going to go into edit mode and rotate
this on the X-axis by 90°. And then I'm
just going to move this forward, scale
it down, and move it to the left side of
our character. Just like this. I'm just
going to scale it down. And we just want
to use some very basic modeling to model
in the eyebrows. I'm going to turn on
snapping so that these faces can snap to
the surface of the sculpt. Come up here.
And then we are going to choose for the
options we're going to choose face
project. And then I'll make sure to turn
on rotation and scale. So anytime we
rotate, anytime we scale, it's going to
snap to the surface of our sculpt. And
then I'll come up here and make sure
that that is turned on right here. And
if you move this, you're going to notice
it's going to snap to the surface of our
sculpt. I'm just going to scale this
down on the Z axis. Something like this.
And for the shape of the eyebrows, you
want to follow your reference at this
point. For me, the eyebrows are really
thin. So, I'm just going to make this
really thin. And then extrude it along
the eyebrow line that we marked out
earlier. So, something like this. And
then we can mirror this over to the
other side. I'll come to my modifiers.
Adding a mirror modifier right here.
I'll select the mirror object as the
round cube. And I'm also going to add in
a solidify modifier right here. I'll
increase the thickness somewhere around
here so that we can actually see the
shapes of the eyebrows. I'll go into
object mode. I can select this, right
click and shade this one smooth.
Something I also like to do at this
point is to add in some color for this.
We can go into vertx paint. And I don't
like to use a completely black color cuz
if you use a completely black color, you
won't really be able to see the forms
and the shape of the eyebrows. So I'm
just going to take this value to about
25. And then I can just pin this in. The
shortcut to just fill everything in is
Ctrl X. So something like that. And now
I'll go into sculpt mode. And then I'm
just going to use the ground brush to
actually start to sculpt this into
place.
It's something more like this. More like
what we see on the reference. And this
eyebrow that we are sculpting right now
is going to be a placeholder. So it's
not going to be the final thing. This is
going to be replaced with actual hair
geometry in future chapters. So just
make sure to keep that in mind. This is
a placeholder right now. Okay. I'm also
going to use this same object and I'm
going to extrude out the eyelashes for
my character. I'm going to select one
bedex here. Shift B to duplicate this.
And I'm just going to extrude along the
edge of the eyelid somewhere around here
till I get to right here. I'm going to
hide the eyes. So just hide the sphere
option. And then I'm going to extrude
this back. And I'm just going to extrude
following the number of edges that we
extruded out earlier. So right here. And
then we can select these two. We can
actually select these four. Press F to
create a new face. right here. We can F
to create the new face. F to create the
new face. And we're just going to keep
on pressing F to create new faces right
there. And you might notice that is that
the solidify is flipped on the eyelash
mesh. So I'm just going to select this.
And to fix that, we can press shift N.
And that is going to recalculate the
normals for us. And it's going to make
the faces point in the right direction.
I'm going to unhide the eyes. And then
I'll also go into weather expense mode
and we can paint in on the eyelashes
right here. I can also go into sculpt
mode, use the grab brush and further
refine the shape of the eyelashes just
like this. So I'm just moving this into
shape. Something like this. Okay, let's
go ahead. I'll press slash to bring back
all the other objects. And we're going
to go ahead and sculpt in the ears for
our character. The ears is going to be
very simple to do. I'll go into sculpt
mode and then I'll just hold down shift
and smooth out over the initial blockout
that we had. Something more like this.
And then you can place this ears into
place based on your reference. So
something like this looks good for me.
Okay. And then to sculpt in the ears,
I'm going to add in some more
resolution. So R I'm going to increase
the resolution to 0.0. 02 should be
fine. And then Ctrl R to remsh this. And
then I'm just going to smooth this into
place. Something more like that. And
then we can just adjust this. Something
like that. All right. To sculp in the
ears, I have a really simple technique
that I like to use to sculp in stylized
ears. I'm going to come up here to this
box marks tool. I'm going to hold down
on it and it's going to bring up this
other options. The options I want to
choose is the lasso max option. And with
the lasso mask, you can actually just
right click on this and add it to your
quill. Right. So I have it added to my
quil right. So if I just select it from
right here, I can add that to my qu
right. I want to select the portion of
the ear that we going to pull in. But if
I select, you're going to also notice
that we are selecting the back. We don't
want to do that. So I'm going to Ctrl Z.
I'm going to check front faces only. And
then I'm just going to select shape of
the ear. Something like this. You can
remove certain parts of the max by
holding down control and just removing
it. I'm also going to remove right here
something more like this. And I'll just
make sure that the max is something is
in a shape that I like. Just like this.
Okay, I like how this looking. Now I'm
going to Ctrl I to invert my mask. And
then I'm going to use the grab brush.
I'm going to use a really big brush
size. And then I'm just going to push
this in for the shape of the ear. So
something like this. And then I'm just
going to push this down. Something more
like that. Alt M to clear the mask. And
I'm going to increase my mesh
resolution. And then CtrlR to im mesh
this. And then I'm just going to smoo
over all of this right here.
And now we can go ahead and refine the
shape of the ears. I'm going to use the
crease polish brush to mark out this
inner edge on the ear. So just using the
crease polish brush and pushing down on
the sculpt to mark out or to make this
crease on the ear right here.
Okay. Also going to do the same right
here for the ear.
And I'm also going to define this edge
of E here. So just holding on control
and defining this shape on the ear. Just
like this. I'll make sure to refine the
shape right here. If I don't like the
way it looks, then I'm going to use the
crease polish brush to mark this out.
Something like this. I'm going to use a
dry brush to pull this out.
Okay. And something like this looks
really good for the ears. To add in some
more details, remember the forms of the
ear that we looked at earlier. So you
can add this question mark shape plus
this Y shape. So we have the cation mark
shape. Something like this. Now let's go
ahead and add in the Y shape. But this
if you want to add details to your ear.
So the way I'm just going to do that,
I'm going to use the clear brush. Add in
some volume right here to simulate that
Y shape. So, this is one branch of the
Y. And then we have another branch of
the Y right here. And then I can just
add in more volume to this.
Okay, I'm going to smooth over
everything. And then I'm just going to
use the crease polish brush and start to
define those shapes a little bit more
just to add some details to the ear. I'm
holding down control and defining this
shape right here. Also right here.
defining the shape right here and also
right here.
And something like this is already
starting to look good just by adding
that little detail on the ear. I'm going
to increase my remsh resolution a little
bit more somewhere around there. 0.008.
Ctrl R to remsh this. and we spa
everything first and then we can go
ahead and define the shapes of the ear
just using the crease polish brush. Also
going to define this shape right here
and this one right here and this one
right here and this one right here.
Just like this and this one right here.
Okay, something like this. You can
refine this even more. So just holding
down control and marking out the shapes
on the ear just like this. And we have a
nice ear shape that looks like this. You
can go ahead and refine this even
further. I'm going to refine this a lot
more after now. Okay. So this is what we
have for the character. I like the way
the shapes are looking on the face. I
really like the way the shapes I have on
the face. I'm still going to go ahead
and refine this a little bit more. I'll
show you what we have or what I have in
the next video. At this stage, you want
to carefully look at your reference,
compare it with what you have on your
sculpt, and that way you'll know exactly
the changes that you need to make. Also,
just make sure you can take bricks when
you're sculpting the head and then when
you come back, you'll be able to also
spot some mistakes that you have on the
head. So, this is how you sculpt heads
inside of Blender for your character. So
now to summarize everything that we
looked at so far. So now you understand
the face proportions and you've seen how
we use them to sculpt faces. You
understand how the planes of the head
work and how they help us sculpt faces.
And now you know how to sculpt faces. So
that's everything that we looked at in
today's video. Don't forget if you need
any extra help with anything we have
discussed in the video or anything so
far in this master class, you can join
the stylish character academy where I'm
going to be holding your hand every step
of the process, making sure that you're
able to master all the techniques that
you use for making characters inside of
Blender. And if you're loving the
masterass so far, if you have been able
to sculpt something so far, go ahead and
leave a review of the masterass on
Thrust Pilot. The link is going to be
below this video. And with that, we've
come to the end of this video. In the
next chapter, we're going to be taking a
look at sculpting the body of our
character. So, that should be fun. I'm
going to see you guys in the next one.
Welcome to chapter 4. In this chapter,
we're going to be sculpting the body,
the hands, and the feet for our
character. And our agenda for this
video, we are going to take a look at
the forms of the body. We are going to
take a look at the forms of the hand. We
are going to take a look at the forms of
the feet. And we're actually going to go
ahead and cover the body, the hands, and
the feet for our character inside of
Blender. So, make sure to share this
master class with someone. Let's help
more artists create work that they are
actually proud of. And a little bit of
warning as of right now for you. This is
the most important video in the entire
master class. So make sure you watch the
entire video. Don't skip around and
don't jump around. All right, let's get
started. The forms of the body, things
you need to know. When sculpting, your
observation is going to be key. We want
to start thinking of anatomy. But
there's a simple way of thinking of
anatomy that no one really talks about.
And that way is your observation skills.
So you don't need to memorize anatomy
charts to score good looking characters.
What is going to matter most at this
stage is your ability to observe your
reference and translate what you see on
your reference onto your 3D sculpt.
That's all you need to do at this stage.
Your observation is the real skill
behind good character sculpting. So you
don't need to memorize like the muscles,
the different muscles of character. You
just need to be able to translate what
you see on your reference onto your 3D
sculpt. And that's why at this stage,
your references are going to be very
important. Choosing a good reference is
going to be important at this stage cuz
your reference is going to become your
anatomy guide. If your reference is
strong, it should naturally guide the
proportions, the volumes, and the
structure of your character's body.
Okay. So, at this stage, if you don't
have a good reference that you can look
at and translate what you see on your
reference to your 3D character, your 3D
sculpt, just go ahead and actually get a
nice reference that you can use for
that. I'm going to show you how to use
your observation skills in a few
minutes. We're actually going to dive
into Blender and do that. So, I'm going
to show you how to do that. All right.
Still under the forms of the body, let's
take a look at the forms of the arm. And
we want to think of the arms as
interlocked chains. A simple way to
think about the arms is a series of
interlocked chains. So just like what we
see here. So if we start with those
forms first, once we get those forms in
place, then we can go ahead and refine
the muscle structure using our
reference. So let me just illustrate
what I mean. So we want to think of the
arm as an interlock chain. So they
should interlock each other like this.
Let's take a look at it from here. So
you can see the way the shoulders is
being interlocked with the bicep and the
bicep is being interlocked with the
lower arm and then the same with the
wrist or the hand of our character. So
that's the way we want to think of the
forms of the hand or the forms of the
arm. Once we get this basic structure in
place, then we now actually be able to
go ahead and refine the shapes that we
have on the arms. So we just keep it
very simple. Think of the arms as
interlock chains. We are going to do
this inside of Blender in a few minutes.
All right, let's move on to the forms of
the leg. And for the legs, you want to
keep in mind the principle of straight
versus curves. For the upper leg, let me
just illustrate that right here. For the
upper leg, the front is curved and the
back is straight. And also for the lower
leg, the back is curved and the front
and the front is straight. just like
this. So this contrast between the
straits and the curves is going to
create a lot of rhythm on your legs or
on the legs of your character is going
to prevent your character from being
stiff. So keep this principle in mind,
I'm going to recall this back to our
memory when we get started with
sculpting inside of Blender. All right.
And also another thing that you want to
do when you're sculpting the legs is to
use the angry face. Visualizing an angry
face over the lower leg is going to help
maintain correct proportions on the leg
of your character. So just like you see
right here. So this is the angry face.
Just remember this image. And if you
draw that over the lower leg right here,
just like you see here, you can see
right here, this part of the leg comes
out higher than this other part of the
leg. So this point is higher than this
point on the inside of the leg. So keep
that in mind. And a simple way to
remember that is with the angry face.
And then also on the ankles, the inner
ankles sit higher than the lower ankles.
And a simple way that you can remember
that is just by drawing out this angry
face on the on the lower leg. And you
also want to keep in mind that the inner
ankles sit higher than the outer ankles.
They should never sit on the same
horizontal line like this. It should be
something more like this. All right,
that's for the forms of the leg. Now,
let's take a look at the torso. For our
torso of our character, we're going to
rely heavily on our reference. So, tosso
vary or the too will vary depending on
your character. So, at this stage, your
reference is going to be important. And
once you start sculpting, I'm going to
show you what to look out for. Some
other things to keep in mind when
sculpting the forms of the torso is to
think in rhythm and balance. As you
sculpt the body, make sure that the
forms flow into one another and feel
balanced. Even though our character is
in a tose, our character should still
feel or there should still be a lot of
rhythm and balance on our character just
like this beautiful example right here.
And then we want to remember to check
the silhouette of our character often.
So zoom out. That's why inside of
Blender I have a view port to the side.
So that view port is going to help us
check the silhouette of our character
often. A clean silhouette is a good sign
that our forms are working together.
These are some things to keep in mind
for the forms of the body. Now let's
take a look at the forms of the hands.
So you want to start with really simple
shapes. And I'll just jump into Purifier
to show you what I mean. So this is an
example of the hands. When you want to
sculpt the hands, just start with three
really simple shapes. So right here we
have the palm which is just this
rectangular shape and then we have this
wedge attached to it which is the part
where the thumb comes out from. And this
exactly how we are going to approach
sculpting the hand when we dive right
into Blender. So start with really
simple shapes. The palm can be
simplified into a rectangular shape with
a wedge attached to it. So this basic
structure once we make that basic
structure is going to make sculpting the
hands much easier. And then you also
want to keep in mind that the palm is
not flat. The palm has a natural curve.
So the fingers feel relaxed rather than
stiff when extending outwards. I'll just
show you what that looks like here. So
the palms have a little bit of curvature
to them. So you want to make sure to
keep that in mind. I'm going to recall
this back to our memory once you
actually start sculpting inside Blender.
The palm is not flat. It has a natural
curve to it. And then the knuckles also
sit on curve. If you look at reference,
you'll notice that the knuckles form a
curved line rather than a straight line.
This one is going to be important for
making the hands feel organic. So right
here, you can see how the knuckles sit
on this nice curve right here. You also
notice how the joints of the fingers are
sitting on a steep curve this way. And
then this one right here is even
steeper. So you want to keep that in
mind. Once again, I'll recall this back
to our memory once we start sculpting
inside of Blender. So the finger joints
follow steeper curve just like I showed
you. So this one is this one is on a
steeper curve. This one is on a less
steeper curve and this one's on a less
steeper curve. So the finger joints
follow steeper curve. And then for the
proportions of the finger, so from the
nole to the fingertip is one unit. And
then the first joint sit halfway along
the length and the second joint is
halfway between the first joint and the
fingertip. So let me just illustrate
that right here. So if we go from the
knuckle right here to the tip of the
finger and we divide this into half
right there, that is going to be the
first joint of the finger. And then if
you go from this first joint to the tip
of the finger, we divide that into half
again. That is going to be the second
bend on the finger. So that's what you
want to keep in mind for the proportions
of the finger. And then the finger joint
angles. The first joint angles slightly
backward. Let me just show you this
instead of reading it out. So the first
joint on the finger angles slightly
backwards.
This second joint goes upward and
forwards a little bit. And then this
third joint goes forward. You want to
avoid something that looks like this.
Just keeping them straight. We want to
avoid that when we are sculpting our
character. All right, let's jump back to
the slides. Now, let's take a look at
the forms of the feet.
And we want to simplify the feet into a
very triangular shape. So, both from the
front and from the side view, the foot
can be thought of as a triangular shape
attached to the leg. And I'll just show
you that right here. So, let's just
think of the feet as a triangle just
like this. And you notice how the
triangle like is a right angle triangle.
So this way it comes out this way. It's
not like like this. It's is doing
something more like this. So a right
angle triangle. That's how you want to
think of the legs. So both from the
front view and also from the side view.
Something like that from the side view.
So just simplify the shape of the foot
into a triangle like that. And then the
bottom view structure if you take a look
at right here is just a very simple
rectangle like this. Once we have the
rectangle replaced, then we can slightly
push in the sides of the feet to form
the shape of the feet. Okay? And then
the side profile refinement. From the
side, the foot remains triangular, but
the midsection pushes inward to form an
arc right here. And you can see that. So
the shape still remains triangular. But
right there, you can see how the feet
just pushes upward to create that arc at
the bottom of the feet. And then stepped
toes is something that you want to keep
in mind if you want the toes of your
character to look really nice. And right
here, you can see how the toes are
stepped a little bit more. And the toes
being stepped is just going to create a
gradual flow or a gradual transition
into the rest of the feet. And then the
ankle structure using the same angry
face that we identified earlier. Just
make sure that the inside of the ankle
the or the inside ankle is higher than
the ankle that is outside of the legs.
All right. At this point, we can now
actually dive into Blender and take a
look at all these techniques that we
just talked about. So, we are going to
sculpt the body, the hands, and the feet
of our character. So, let's dive right
into Blender. So this is where we
stopped in the last chapter and I went
ahead and also refined some shapes on
the face but not much. So more or less
this is where we left off at the last
chapter. I also went ahead and gathered
some more references. So I have
references for the body and the torso of
my character. These ones were here
before. I added in this one. And then I
also gathered some more references for
the hands of my character just like
this. And then I gathered this reference
for the feet. Okay, so right now we are
going to get started with the forms of
the hand or we going to get started with
sculpting the hands first and then we'll
sculpt the feet and then we're actually
going to go ahead and sculpt the body.
So let's get started with the hands. For
the hands, shift a mesh. I'm going to
add in a cube.
And I'm just going to turn off snapping
here. We don't need this turned on for
now. I'm going to go into edit mode and
from the front view I'm going to bring
this right here to just where the palm
would be. S and Z, we are going to scale
this down. And I'm going to rotate it to
follow the shape of the hand. I'll just
scale this up slightly. And then I can
move it right here. And then I'm going
to select these faces in front and I'm
going to move them backward. Something
like this. So, what we are trying to do
now is just to block out the palm of the
character. I'm going to select these
ones, scale, scale it down. We can
actually just scale that on the Yaxis.
And we can also scale this one on the
Yaxis. Then, I'm just going to select
everything and move it somewhere around
here. We can hide this blocker that we
made for the ham. We don't really need
it right now. So, we can just hide that
here. So, something like this. We are
going to start blocking out the P. And
I'll just make sure I can see the
fingers from this view port.
All right. So, let's go into edit mode.
I'm going to add a look cut in the
middle right here. And I'm going to
bring this up like so. So, remember we
see that the palm is not flat. It
actually has a curve to it. So, that's
why I'm adding that there. And then I'm
also going to go ahead add in one loop
right here and another looper right
here. I'm going to select this and I'm
just going to move them up.
Something like that to give more
curvature to the palm of our character.
All right, that look good. I'm going to
add one look at the middle here. I'm
going to add another one right here. All
I want to do now is to add the wedge for
where the thumb is going to be. So to do
that, I'm just going to select these
four pieces. I'm going to extrude them
out. Something like that. And then I'm
also going to select these four faces
right here. And then we're going to
extrude the zones out. Something like
this. I'm going to select this Ves. And
I'm just going to push this into a
shape. Something more like this. So this
is where the thumb is going to come out
from. And we can relax this. I'm going
to select these loops. GG to slide them.
Going to select this one. GG to slide
them. Also going to select this one.
and GG to slide them right here. Okay,
we can also select this one and we can
just move it down just to make a little
bit more round it. We are still going to
clean up this shape a lot more for now.
That looks good. We can also select this
one GG to slide it down. [clears throat]
Just like that. And then Ctrl R. I'm
going to add in a low cut here. And alt
S. I'm just going to scale this out a
little bit. So, let me actually turn on
screencast key so that you guys can see
the keys I'm pressing. All right. This
space right here is where the fingers
are going to be. And I'm just going to
select this one. GG to slide them up.
Can slide them up like this. So that
this space, the fingers fit right into
this place here. We don't want it to be
too big like that. So, let's just move
this one up. We can also just select
this and then select these ones. And
then we can move them up like that. All
right. This is looking good. Let's go
into sculpt mode and use the sculpting
brushes to help us refine the shapes a
little bit more. I'm going to use the
grab brush and just holding down shift.
I'm going to smooth out some of these
forms here.
Okay, something like that. And then I'm
just going to bring this down. Make sure
that this is flowing nicely into the
lower arm of our character.
And I'll make sure I like the way it
looks right here. I'm going to bring
this one right here like this. I'm going
to push this one into here.
And I'm going to bring this one down
just like this. So, this is the palm of
our character. We are going to refine
this a lot more. Don't worry, it won't
remain like this. But for now, this
looks good for the blockout of our P.
Something like this looks good. Okay.
And we can actually go ahead and mirror
this over to the other side so that you
can start to see what that looks like.
So I can add in a mirror modifier right
here. And for the mirror modifier, you
can actually add it to your P right. So
you can just search for any of this.
Right click and then it should say add
to be right for you. So that you can
just from your favorite by pressing Q.
You can just select the mirror modifier.
And then we have something that looks
like that. And yeah, the size of this
palm looks good. Right now, I might just
go into edit mode and select all and
just scale it down a little bit to fit
the shape of my character. But overall,
this looks nice. I like the way this
looking. Okay, you can go ahead and add
in another loop right here. Something
like that looks good. You can also go
ahead for the modifiers. I'm going to
add in a subdivision surface modifier.
And in object mode, I'm going to see
what that looks like. Okay, this looks
good for a palm. We can go into sculpt
mode now that we've added the
subdivision surface modifier. We're
going to want to tweak the shape
of the palms a little bit. So, I'm just
going to bring this up. Something more
like this. Right here is looking too
thick. So, I'm just going to narrow that
down a little bit more.
All right. Something like this is
looking good. So, this is the shape that
I have from the front. This is the shape
that I have from the side. This is the
shape I have right here. Okay, I'm going
to go into edit mode and I'm also just
going to select these two edies. So, one
and two right here. You can press Alt Z,
double X3 from right here to be able to
toggle X3. And then I'm just going to
bring this down. Something like this.
And the reason I'm bringing that down is
just to indicate the fat part on the
other side of the thumb. So, right here
is just what I'm indicating with that.
We're going to refine that a little bit
more or a lot more actually when we
apply the subdivisions of piece. But for
now, that looks fine. Let's go ahead and
let's block out the fingers for our
character. To block out the fingers, I'm
going to shift a mesh and I'm going to
add in a cube.
Going to go into edit mode. And in edit
mode, I'm going to make sure I'm in
vertx selection mode. All right. I'm
going to select all with A and then M.
And I'm going to merge everything at the
center. You're not going to see anything
in the viewport. It's going to be as if
we deleted everything. That's completely
fine. If you go up here and you toggle
X-ray, you're going to see that vertex.
And if you cannot clearly see this
vertx, probably you have the origins
turned on and you can't clearly see the
vertex. That's also fine. Just come up
here to view port overlays and then turn
off origins.
All right. We don't want to move this
vertex from this point. Just select the
vertex E and extrude it on the X-axis.
Just something like this. We're going to
refine or adjust the length of this a
little bit more. All right. Now that we
have that, we're going to go ahead and
we're going to add some modifiers. I'm
going to add a skin modifier and I'm
also going to add a subdivision surface
modifier. Subdivision surface. This one
right here. I'll increase the levels of
the subdivision surface to one something
like that. And this is going to be our
finger. To adjust the thickness of the
fing of our finger, we can go into edit
mode. You can select all with A. And
then we can press Ctrl A to either
flatten or shrink the shape of the
finger. So somewhere around here is
fine. Okay. And I'll go back into object
mode. And the reason I told us not to
move the finger in edit mode was so that
we can maintain the origin point. So if
I just rotate this, you're going to see
how the finger is still rotating from
this point. This is going to help us and
make rotating the arms into place,
sorry, rotating the fingers into place a
little bit easier. So we just want to
maintain that origin point and that's
why I told us not to move this vertex
from the middle. All right, let's go
ahead in object mode, not in vertx mode,
not in edit mode. In object mode, we are
going to bring this down here. And we're
going to place it for the fingers. I'm
just going to place it something like
this. I'm taking a look at my reference
right now. I'm just placing it somewhere
around there. All right, that looks
good. For the fingers, I'm going to
place this right here. This is going to
be the index finger. And I'm just going
to place that right there. All right,
let's duplicate this fingers for all the
other fingers. And the way we are going
to duplicate it is by using Alt D. So
this shortcut right here, the normal
shortcut is shift D, but we are going to
use all D. And I'll explain why we're
using all D in a couple of seconds. So
just use all D to duplicate this
right here. And the reason we are using
all D at this stage is so that if we go
into edit mode and we change something
on one of these fingers, it's going to
change on all the fingers. So if I add a
loop here and I just bend it this way,
it's going to change the shape for all
the fingers. So that's the reason we're
using all D. And what D does is just to
transfer the object data between all
these different objects. You don't need
to worry about what that means, but just
know that any change that you make here
is going to be made on all the other
fingers. I'm going to remove this vertex
that I added in earlier. Okay. And
something like this for the fingers.
Looks good. I'm going to spread out the
fingers just a little bit more. So, I'm
just going to rotate them a little bit
more and just spread them out. Something
like this.
All right, let's go ahead and let's
adjust the length of these fingers. If
you take a look at your own finger, the
pinky is the smallest, so we can just
scale this down. And then we have the
ring finger. Then we have the middle
finger, which is the tallest usually.
And then we have the index finger. So
something like this. I'm just going to
place this. And I'll make sure that
there's enough space in between these
fingers. And also for the fingers, I'll
make sure that the fingers are following
the curvature of the palm. So I'm just
going to move this one up. Going to
select this one. Move it up. And
something like this. We want to make
sure that the fingers are following the
curvature of the palm. All right.
Something like this looks good for me.
Maybe I'll just adjust this a little bit
more.
All right. This looks good for the
fingers. Let's go ahead into edit mode
and let's refine the shapes of these
fingers even more. I'm going to go into
edit mode and I'm going to add a loop
cut in the middle right here. So, Ctrl R
and then adding a vertex right there and
I'm just going to select this vertex in
front and I'm just going to move it or
angle it up slightly a little bit. And
we want to make this part a little bit
narrower. So if you take a look at the
reference here, you can see how the tip
is narrower. So you can just select this
one, Ctrl A, and then we can just make
that a little bit narrow. Something like
that. Okay. And I like the way this
looking already. Probably I'll just
bring this down slightly. And then we
can also go ahead and add in another
look right here in the middle. And I'm
just going to bend this even more. So
something like this. This is the shape
that I have for the fingers. All right,
I'm going to make sure that I like the
position of these fingers. And I'm just
taking a look at it from this view port
and making sure I like the way the
shapes of the finger or where the shapes
of the fingers are. Okay, something like
this is going to look just fine for me.
I can also select all of these and
rotate them slightly downwards like
this. All right, this looks good for the
fingers. I'm just going to place this in
the right spot.
Okay, I'm happy with the way this looks.
We're going to refine this a lot more
when we actually start sculpting on it,
but for now, this looks good. Okay,
let's go ahead and let's also make the
thumb. For the thumb, I'm going to reuse
one of these fingers. And in this time,
this time around, we want to actually
use shift D to duplicate this. So, we
don't want our object to have the same
object data as this other objects. So,
we're just going to use shift D to
duplicate this. All right. And then I'm
going to place it right here. I'm also
just going to rotate this. So, pressing
R twice to rotate it this way. Something
like this. This finger is way too long
right now. I'm just going to go into
edit mode. I'm going to select this. I'm
just going to pull them back. So, just
pushing them back just like this. You
can also select one of these vertx right
here. Ctrl X to dissolve that edge or to
dissolve that vertex. Something like
this. And this thumb right now is way
too slim. So we can just select or Ctrl
A to scale it up or to fatten it a
little bit. Okay, something like that.
Then I can select this one. Ctrl E to
scale it down. I can also add in another
loop code here. Ctrl E to scale this
out. And Ctrl E. I'm going to scale this
one in. And right here, Ctrl E. I'm
going to scale this one out. Something
just like that.
All right. And I'm just going to make
sure that thumb is placed right in the
area where we marked out for the thumb.
So, I'm just placing it right in this
wedge that we pulled out for the thumb.
And make sure that the placement of the
thumb looks good from all angles. So,
I'm taking a look at it right here. And
I'm going to make sure that that looks
good. And for this thumb, I think I want
it to sit somewhere around here. So, I'm
just going to adjust the shape of the
palm to fit where I want the thumb to
be. So, something more like this for the
shape of the thumb is going to be fine
for me. And then I'm also just going to
pull this up.
Okay. And yeah, something like this for
the shape of the hands looks just fine
for me. I'm going to zoom out a little
bit and make sure that the proportions
on the fingers are right. And right now
I'm just going to select one of these
fingers. I can see that these fingers
are a little bit too slim. So I'm just
going to Ctrl A. I'm going to increase
their thickness a little bit more. And
then I'm going to place these fingers in
the right spot. So something like this
for me looks good. Okay. And then I'm
also just going to adjust the shapes or
the length of this fingers. So I'm just
going to reduce the size of this one.
Reduce this one. And something like this
looks good. I'm going to select the
thumb. I'm going to press A and Ctrl E.
I'm going to shrink this down a little
bit more.
All right. And let's adjust the shape of
the thumb to actually conform better or
let's adjust the shape of the palm to
conform better with the shape of the
thumb. I'm going to apply the
subdivision topics at this point so that
we can have more resolution to play
with. And in sculpt mode with our grab
brush, I'm just going to use the grab
brush to pull this into the thumb a
little bit more.
Okay. Something like this. And I'll make
sure that we just have enough space
right here.
All right. Something like that. Can also
pull in this part right here. Something
more like this. And then I'll make sure
that the wrist is flowing nicely into
the lower arm.
Okay. Something like that. And right
here, we can use the in place brush to
make this part a lot more rounded. I'm
going to hold down shift and smooth this
out. Okay, that looks good. I'm also
going to include this part right here.
So, these are just the fat parts on the
palm. So, I'm just going to hold down
shift and smooth this out. I'm just
making sure everything is working
together. I can also switch the lower
arm and use the grab brush to just push
this in.
Something like that. All right, I'm
happy with the way this is looking right
now. And we can definitely move forward.
Something I'm just going to do one last
thing before I move forward. I'm going
to switch my keyboard point to
individual origins. And you can press
period on your keyboard to bring up the
spy menu or you can come up here and
then just change to individual origins.
And with individual origins, if I scale
these objects now, you're going to
notice how all of them are scaling from
their own individual origin. So I'm just
going to scale this slightly up.
Something like this. All right. And then
I'll change the pivot point back to the
default, which is median point.
Okay. Now, we can go ahead and we can
refine the shapes on the fingers. To
refine the shapes on the fingers, we're
going to need to apply these modifiers.
But if we try to apply these modifiers,
we try to press apply here, it's going
to bring up this error. And we don't
really want to apply, we don't if we
come here, say applies, it's telling us
to apply a single data for just this
object. Don't worry about what that
means for now. We don't want to do that.
So the way or work around for that is
just to select all these, press Ctrl A
and see visual geometry to mesh right
there. And that's going to apply all our
modifiers. But if you go into sculpt
mode, we are still able to make one
change on this object and it's going to
be transfer to all the other objects
that have the same object property. All
right, let's refine the shape of the
fingers. We are going to use the
symmetry to help us here. And it might
either be the X symmetry for you or the
Y symmetry. Okay, for me it's the Y
symmetry. So I'm going to turn on Y
symmetry. And then I'm just going to
adjust the shapes of this fingers. For
the fingers, we want to drag out the tip
right here.
Okay, something more like that. And
right here at the side, we want shape
more like this. So I'm just going to use
the grab brush to smooth this out.
Okay. Something more like this is the
shape that we want for the fingers.
All right, I like how this looking. And
I'll just go into object mode for a bit.
I'm going to rotate this finger into
place. I'll also do the same on this
finger right here. Just going to rotate
this into place so that it's following
the curvature of the palm a little bit
more.
Yeah, something more like this. So that
just following the curvature of the palm
a little bit more. Okay. And this shape
is good for the fingers. Let's go ahead
and let's mark out the joints of the
finger. So remember the proportions I've
looked up for the arm. If you go from
the knuckle, so that's somewhere around
here. And we go all the way to the tip
of the finger. If we find the halfway
point in between here. So that's
somewhere around here. Yeah. So right
here is going to be the first joint. So
I'm just going to use the crease polish
brush to mark that out. Something like
that. And notice how I'm using a small
brush size. So I'm just going to mark
that out. I'll take that all the way to
the bottom right here. So something like
that. Okay. If to find the other joint.
So from right here, this halfway point
to the tip of the finger. If we divide
this into half again, this is going to
be the second joint. So I'm just going
to use the crease polish brush to mark
this out. All right. Something like
that. And I'm just going to draw this
all the way to the bottom of the
fingers. You don't want to overdo this.
Just something like this is going to be
fine. And now I'm going to erase this
annotation lines.
All right. And something like this is
looking good. Something I like to do for
the fingers is to actually plane out the
area or to just flatten out the area
where the fingernails are going to be.
I'm going to use the split brush and
just pl out just flatten that area right
there. So that so that we have something
that looks like this. And I'm just going
to use the grab brush to push this down
a little bit more. And then we have
something that looks like this. All
right. For this character, I'm not going
to be adding fingernails. I like the way
this looks. All right. Let's go ahead
and let's mark out the joints at the
top. I'm going to use the crease polish
brush for this. So just remember the
proportions that we marked out or that
we looked at earlier. The joints go this
way. So this one goes forward. This one
goes upward and forward a little bit.
And then this one goes backward like
this. So we want to mark out the crease
up here. So I'm just using the crease
polish brush. Holding down control and
just marking out right here.
Okay. Something like that. For this
other one, we can come right here and
can mark it out just like that. And
something like that already looks good
for the fingers. I like how that's
looking for these other joints at the
back. Once we add more geometry to the
palm, we are going to add that in a
little bit more. Going to clean out this
annotation lines. And something like
that for the fingers looks really nice.
I'm going to switch to the turn object
and let's go ahead and can apply this
modifiers. Ctrl A and we can just see
visual geometry to mesh. Then I'm going
to go into sculpt mode and with the
engra brush we can refine the shape of
the thumb. You can check to see if the
symmetry is going to work for the thumb.
Most time it doesn't work for the thumb.
I'm just going to check to see if it
works. It kind of works, but you can see
it's out of alignment a little bit. So
I'm not going to use in this case. I'm
just going to use the grab brush and I'm
going to make the thumb symmetrical. So,
I'm just going to pull out this right
here. And on the thumb, this part of the
joint comes in a little bit more. And
this tip is narrow. Something like this.
And then this bottom part of the thumb
goes and flows into the palm. Something
more like this. All right. Also, right
here at the side, we want this kind of
curve on the side. So, I'm going to use
the grab brush to smooth this out. I'm
just going to smooth this out. Now, make
sure I smooth this out on both sides.
Remember, we don't have symmetry on the
We don't have symmetry turned on on the
thumb. Just smooth it out for both
sides. Something like that. And then we
can mark out the joints on the thumb.
I'm going to use the crease polish brush
for that. And somewhere around here, we
can just use the crease polish brush and
go across that area right there. All
right. Also from this side here, I'm
also just going to use the grab brush to
pull this into the fingers or into the
palm.
And then with the script brush, we can
just flatten out the area where the
fingernails is going to be.
And then we have something that looks
like this. And yeah, I love the way this
is looking already. Okay, I'll just go
around this. To make sure I like the
placement and positioning of all of
these fingers, I'm going to switch to
the palm object and I'll just make right
here. I'll make this part of the palm
just envelope the whole fingers.
Something like that.
And I'll make sure that this is flowing
nicely into the fingers.
All right. I like how this is looking
right now. And with this, we can
actually go ahead add in more resolution
to our sculpt or to our blockout here
and then refine the shapes that we have.
So, let's go ahead and start up with
that on the palm. Let's actually go
ahead and if you have not yet, just like
me, if you've not yet saved your file,
go ahead and save your file. I'm
actually going to just save incremental
right here. And that's going to add a
number to our file name. Just like that.
All right. Something like this looks
good for me. And on the palm, we can go
ahead and add in some more resolution.
I'm going to increase the mesh
resolution. I'll just take this up to
about 0.025.
Should be fine.
And then Ctrl R. We're going to mesh
this together. I'm going to hold down
shift and just gently smooth over
everything.
Okay. Something like this. And now we
have this nice base to walk off from.
You can see if I go here like the body
or the other blockouts are kind of
obstructing me. So a simple way to get
rid of the other object without hiding
them. It can actually mask the view port
and you can press AltB to mask the view
port. So press AltB, this shortcut right
here, and it's going to bring up this
crosshair. And then you just select a
part of the view port that you want to
keep, and it's going to mask out that
part for you. All right. right there
looks fine. And at this stage, just like
we mentioned, we want to observe what we
see on our reference and translate that
to our 3D sculpt. So, right here, I love
the way this part of the hand looks. So,
I'm just going to shift C with the
crease polish brush. I'm going to mark
this out just something like this.
Okay.
And then I'm also I can see this part is
going towards this area. I'm just going
to from here use the crisp polish brush
and mark out something going just like
that. All right. I like the way that's
looking. And then I'm also going to mark
out right here on the So I'm just going
to use the C polish brush to mark that
out. So that's something like this.
All right. And then we can definitely
add some more volume right here. I'm
going to use the crease polish brush.
Sorry, I'm going to use the clear brush.
And then I'm just going to add some
volume right here.
And then we can go ahead and hold down
shift and smooth this out. Something
like this. You can also make this part
of the flat. Make this part of the palm
a lot flatter.
Something like this. I'm going to use
the crease polish brush to mark this out
even more. So just defining that area
right there. And I'll define it all the
way to the side of the palm. Just like
this.
All right. You want to have something
just like that.
Okay. I like the way that's looking. And
for the palm, something I like to do is
to define these edges right here. So I
can use the crease polish brush with
this hold down control and then just
define these edges like so. All right.
You can also come in right here and
define this edges like so.
Okay. And I'm also going to use the
crease polish brush to mark out this
edge right here.
Something like this. I'm going to use
the script brush to just flatten out the
top of the palm.
Okay. And I'll just do that everywhere
at the top of the palm. Something like
this.
All right. Something like this is
looking good for the shape of the palm.
Yeah, I like how this is looking so far.
Let's go ahead and let's add in some
more resolution to the fingers. We can
select any of these fingers and we can
go into sculpt mode and then we can
increase our rem resolution
somewhere around 0.01 should be fine.
and then CtrlR to remesh this. All
right, once we mesh, let's just go ahead
and gently smooth over everything.
Just hold down shift and smooth over
everything. We don't want to get rid of
our main shape. So, just gently smooth
over everything.
All right, something like that looks
good. I'm going to go ahead and mark out
these joints at the bottom. So, I'm just
going to use the crease polish brush and
do something like this.
Okay. And you can see how subtle that
is. You don't want to do something like
like this. That doesn't look really
nice. So, you just want to make that
really subtle.
Just like this. Okay. And then I also do
the same at this joint right here.
Okay. And then I can use cl brush to add
some volume right here.
Add also add some volume right here.
And then I'm going to hold down shift
and smooth this out.
Okay, let's also go ahead and mark out
the joints at the top right here. I'm
going to use the crease polish brush
just like we did earlier. And I'm going
to mark out this area right here.
Something like that. I'm just going to
keep it really subtle and really simple.
Something like that. Yeah. And then
right here for the this other joint
right here. Something like that. Okay.
I'm going to mark out with a crease
polish brush where the fingernail is
going to sit. I'm just making an
indication of where the fingernail is
going to sit. I'm not going to add
fingernails to this character. But if we
adding a fingernails, let me actually
show you how to go about it. So with the
crease polish brush, you can just go
ahead use the crease polish brush and
just mark out the fingernails. something
like this.
And then hold down control and sharpen
these areas here. And then just make
sure that the fingernails was flat.
Something like this. So that's how you
add fingernails. But I'm not going to do
that for this specific character.
Something like this looks good already.
Yeah, I like the way this is looking
right now. I might just tilt this
upward. So, I'm just pushing this upward
just a little bit more.
All right. And yeah, I'm starting to
like how that looks. I'll go ahead and
do the same for the thumb. So, we're
going to add some more resolution right
here. Now, just zoom into the finger so
I can actually see what they look like
from this view. I'm going to add some
more resolution. 0.01 should be fine.
Ctrl R to mesh this. And I'm going to
gently smooth over everything so that we
don't get rid of the forms that we
already created. Something like this.
I'm going to make this part of the thumb
a lot flatter.
Something more like that. And I'm going
to mark out these joints at the bottom
of the thumb. So I'm just going to use
the crease polish brush to mark this
out.
Okay. Something like that.
All right. Saluted. I'm also going to
mark out the area where the fingernail
is supposed to be. Something like this.
I'll hold down control to mark out this
edge.
And I'm going to refine the shape. So I
can see that it's not very symmetrical
right now. So I'm just going to use the
engra brush to make that look a little
bit more symmetrical. Since we're not
using x as symmetry or we not using
symmetry at all, it's not going to be
completely symmetrical. I'm just trying
to make it as symmetrical as I can make
it. Something like this is going to
work. Okay. And then I can also come up
here with the crease polish brush. I can
just mark out these joints at the top of
the finger on the top of the thumb.
Okay. Something like that. Yeah, I like
how this is looking right now. I'm going
to just hold down shift and smooth all
of this out. Okay. I'll just adjust the
shape of the thumb till I have something
I like.
And this looks good for the fingers. So
now with this in place, we can actually
go ahead and merge everything together
and actually sculpt everything together.
And that's what we're going to do right
now. I'm going to go into object mode.
I'm going to select this. I'm going to
make the palm my active object. and then
Ctrl G to join them together. And let's
go into sculpt mode. Increase the mesh
resolution. I will increase this. We
don't want to go with a low rem
resolution. If you go with a low
resolution, you're going to see this
happening. So the mesh is like sticking
in between the fingers. We don't want
that to happen. So we're going to go
with a high resolution. And also with a
high resolution, we are going to be able
to sculpt more fine details. So, I'm
just going to increase the mesh
resolution to somewhere around 0.01.
Somewhere around there should be fine.
And also just keep in mind now that you
have joined all the objects together,
the fingers you have to sculpt them
individually. So, just keep that in
mind. If you still wanted to make some
changes to the finger, just back up a
little bit. Ctrl Z. And then make sure
you're happy with the shapes of the
fingers before joining everything
together. All right. Ctrl R. I'm going
to merge this together.
And now we have everything reversed
together. All we need to do now is just
to smooth out the transitions on the
fingers. And the way I like to do that
at the top, I'm going to use the clues
brush. And I'm just going to draw
straight lines coming in from the palm.
Something like this. Okay. And if you
smooth that out, you're going to see
that nice transition form at the top
right there. Something like that. And
then we're also going to use the
client's brush and also mark out.
Same on the pinky finger.
Just adding in or cleaning up the
transition. Then hold down shift and
then we can smooth this out like so.
All right, that looks good. We're also
going to add in some more to the side
right here. We want the side to blend in
nicely with the fingers. And I'm just
going to smooth out everything.
Something like that. I can smooth out
this area right here so that that blends
nicely with the fingers.
All right. Something like that. Just
going to smooth out the transitions
right here. Now, also do the same right
here.
I'll add in some volumes.
Just like this. And then we can smooth
out the transitions this way.
Okay. I'm also going to do the same
right here. I'll add in
some more volume with the C brush.
I'm going to smooth out the transitions
right here.
Okay, something like that looks good. I
like how that's looking. I'll also add
some more volume on the side here to
smooth out the transitions. And then
hold down shift to smooth it out. Okay.
at the bottom right here. We can also go
ahead and do the same. Add in some more
transition lines or some more volume
right here. Then we can smooth this out.
And right here, you will notice the
palm, the shape of the palm is something
like this. It's doing something like
that. So, I'm just going to use the
cbrush. I want that to be flush with the
fingers. So, something more like this.
I'll also adjust it at the side right
here.
Okay. Something like that. And then I
can use the client's brush. Yeah, the
cliches brush. C for the cliches brush.
And then we can add in some more volume.
I'll add some here too. I'll add some
here too. And I'll just smooth this out
like so.
Okay. And then I'm just going to use the
crease polish brush to define the crease
at the bottom right here. So just at the
part of at this part of the finger.
Something like that. You can also do
that for all the other fingers. Just
like this.
Just using the crease polish brush and
marking out this crease at the bottom of
the fingers.
Just like that. All right. I like the
way that is looking. I'm just going to
take a look at it from this view. Yeah.
And I like the way that's looking. Let's
refine some of these other shapes. I'm
just going to smooth out the palm
like this. And then you can use the
crease brush to add in the crease right
here. Sorry. You can use the crease
polish brush. I'm mixing up the brushes.
So you can just use the crease polish
brush to mark this out. And then you can
also mark right here out like this. If
you need to, you can add some more
volumes right here on the fingers on the
palm. Then you can hold down shift and
smooth this out. Also going to add in
some volume right here.
Then I'm going to smooth this out. I
want to smooth out this transition right
here. I'm going to use the clear shoes
brush to add in some volume right there.
Also going to add in some volume right
here.
And we'll make sure that the palm is or
that the thumb is flowing nicely into
the palm. Just holding down shift can
smooth all of this out.
Okay. And then I'm going to use the grab
brush to push this in. Something like
that. I like the way that shape looks a
little better. I'm going to smooth out
top of the arm.
And then I'm just going to switch to the
lower arm for a bit. And I just adjust
the lower arm to fit the shape of the
hand that we have sculpted in.
Yeah, something like that. I can switch
back to the hand and make even more
adjustments. So, right here on the palm,
I'm going to define this crease. this
bit more with the crease polish brush.
Yeah, something like that. That how
that's looking a lot. And also going to
find the creases
the palm a lot more.
Okay, I like the way this looking a lot.
going to define the
these creases here. So just using the
crease polish brush to go over this
and to go over this even more.
Then let's go over this part right here.
And I'll also go over this one right
here.
Yeah, that looks really, really nice. I
like how this is looking right now. We
can define the knuckles right here. So,
I'm just using the crease polish brush
to mark out the knuckles right here.
Just holding down control and marking
out the knuckles. Something like this.
That always looks nice for most
characters.
I'm just going to pl out the sides. Make
the sides flat.
Okay. And I'll make sure that the forms
of the hand are looking good from all
angles. So, rotate around your sculpt.
Go around your sculpt and make sure that
the forms are looking good from all
angles possible.
Okay, I like what we have here. I'm
going to crease the
thumb a little bit more. So, use the
this polish brush.
And I'm just going to crease this a
little bit more.
Now, make sure that the transitions
between the thumb and the palm is really
clean.
Okay. Something like that. So, I'm going
to define this edge a little bit more
and hold on control.
Something like that. And to refine the
shapes of the finger even more, you can
definitely go and increase the rem
resolution. I'm not going to do that
right now so that we don't make this
chapter too long, but you can definitely
go ahead if you're happy with the way it
looks. You can increase your immersion
resolution and then really solidify the
shapes or the fingers and the palms and
all the joints and all the creases. You
can go ahead and define that a little
bit more. I'm not going to do that so
that this chapter doesn't get too long.
Okay, so these are the fingers that we
have and that is looking nice for
fingers. Let's go ahead and let's work
on the legs or on the feet of our
character or the feet of our character.
Let's go into object mode and we can
hide this placeholder right there and
we're going to shift A. We are still
going to starting start off with a round
cube. So I'm just going to add in a
round cube right there. I'm going to go
from the side view. Go into edit mode
and I'm just going to bring this down
right here. And I'm just going to switch
this viewboard so that we can see the
feet. All right. I'm going to scale this
down on the Z axis to fit the shape of
the feet. And I'm also going to scale it
on the X axis. And then I'm going to
move this into place right here. Okay.
I'm going to just scale this on the Y
axis. So something around here should be
fine for the fits.
All right. And let's go into sculpt
mode. I remember when we looked at the
feet. The feet is just a very simple
rectangle shape. So just something like
this. So that's exactly what we want to
do. Right now I'm going to go from the
bottom view. To get to the bottom view,
you can press the minus Z axis right
here. And that's going to bring you to
the bottom view. I'm going to use the
grab brush. And I'm just going to shape
this into a nice rectangular shape. Just
something like this. So, let's use the
grabr brush. I'm going to pull this into
shape.
Okay. Also going to just pull this into
shape. Something like that. And I'll
make sure this looks like a a rectangle
right here.
All right. Something that looks like
this is completely fine. I'm going to go
ahead and we want to pull the shape.
Remember the shape of the leg or the
shape of the feet is a triangle just
like this. So, we want to use the grab
brush to pull this into shape. If I use
the grab brush and pull this. Now,
you're going to notice is dragging the
bottom part of our feeds. Let's max that
part out so that it doesn't move. So,
I'm going to use the lasso max brush.
You can come here over this brush. Press
it down and then it's going to bring up
these other options and then you'll be
able to select the lasso max. You can
also right click and add the lasso max
brush to your query right. So just right
click and it should say add to pre. So
if you press Q, you can add it from your
query right. I'm going to select this
bottom half right here.
Something like this.
And then I'm going to use the grab
brush. I'm just going to pull this into
the feet. Something like that. Let's
refine this a little bit more. You can
hold down shift and smooth it out a
little bit more. And I'm just realizing
I didn't mask all the way. So I'm just
going to do Ctrl Z. And the reason this
happened with the lasso mask brush,
remember when we mask out the ear, we
turned on this option. So we turned on
front faces only. So it's only going to
select the faces that's visible to us.
So I'm going to uncheck that and then
I'm going to mask this again.
To unmask certain parts, you can hold
down control and unmask them. And now we
should have selected everything. Okay,
now let's go ahead with the grab brush
again. I'm just going to pull this up
into the leg. Hold down shift and I'm
going to smooth this out. Something like
that. I can pull that up even more.
Okay. And I'm just going to pull that
into the leg. Something like that. I
hold down shift and smooth out this.
Okay. We want to make sure to also
smooth out this area. So, we just want
it going really straight into tool.
Something like this.
I'm going to use the grab brush and I'm
just going to make this into a
triangular shape. Something like that.
And for the legs, remember we discussed
that the legs look like a right angle
triangle. So we don't want the triangle
like this. We don't want the triangle
like this.
We want it more like this.
Okay. So to achieve that shape, we're
going to clear our mask. Alt M to clear
the mask. And then with the grab brush,
we can just push this this way. So
something like that.
And then you can just adjust the way
this looks.
I'm also just going to smooth out this
area right here so that that is not too
sharp.
So we want something that looks like
this for our feet. Also going to smooth
out this area right here. And for the
back of the leg, what we want to do at
this point is to make this kind of
teardrop shape. So something that looks
like this. Let me just draw that again.
Something that looks like this. Yeah,
something more like this. All right. So,
I'm just going to use the inflate brush
and I'm just going to inflate the back
of the leg.
Okay. And we can just push this into
shape. Something like this. All right.
I'm going to adjust the lower leg so
that that can fit to the new proportion
of the legs that we just added in or the
feet that we just added in.
from the front and also from the side
view. All right, something like that is
going to look just fine. I'm going to
switch back to this object and just
going to make sure that this two looks
like a rectangle from the bottom view.
So, something like this is what we want.
Okay, I'm going to switch back to this
object and just make sure I have that
shape in place. And I'm going to make
sure that the back of the leg looks like
that teardrop shape. that teardrop shape
that we talked about earlier.
All right, this looks good for the feet.
I'm going to go from the side view and
I'm going to use the lasso marks brush.
I'm going to use the line project brush
and I'm just going to line project this.
Just like that. Okay. And our tools are
going to be right here. I'm going to use
the grab brush and I'm going to pull
this forward a little bit more.
Something like this. And the toes are
going to sit right here.
Okay. Let me just go to the right angle.
Our toes are going to be right here.
Okay. We'll try to make those that look
better than that. But that's where our
toes are going to be. Okay. That looks
good for the blockout of the feet. Let's
go ahead and let's add in the toes for
our character. I'm going to shift a mesh
and we're going to add in a cube. With
this cube, we want to do the exact same
thing that we did with the fingers. So,
I'm going to go into edit mode. Still in
vertx selection. I'm going to press
select all with E. Press M to bring up
this merge menu. And then we're going to
merge all at the center. All right. So,
right there we have that vertex. We want
to make sure not to move this. I'm just
going to extrude this out on the Yaxis.
Something like that. And I'm going to go
ahead and add the skin modifier.
I'm also going to add a subdivision
surface modifier. I'll change the levels
of view too.
I'm going to select all and then Ctrl A
to just scale this into position. and to
be able to visualize this better. Let's
actually move this into the position of
the feet. I'm going to select this and
move it down. And remember, I'm moving
it in object mode, not in edit mode, so
that we can maintain this origin point.
So, I'm just going to move that down
right here. Okay. And move that into
place.
Something like that.
Okay. This looks good for the feet. I'm
just going to angle the feet this way.
or I'm going to angle this big toe this
way.
Okay. And let's shape the big toe a
little bit more. To shape the big toe,
remember the stepped shape that I
mentioned earlier. So, we just want to
get this kind of stepped shape on the
top. I'm going to add in a looper right
here and another one right here. I'll
press G twice to slide this backwards.
And I can select this one and G and Z to
move them down. And just to sharpen this
crease right here, we can add in a loop
cut. And then GG to just slide this
something like this. And now we have the
shape for two. Can also just select this
vertex and then Ctrl A to expand that
out a little bit. And I'll just move
this back into. So the way I move that,
I press G twice and then C to extend it
beyond where it normally would extend.
I'll just move that back somewhere
around here.
All right, this looks good for the toe.
I'm going to bring this slightly higher
a little bit. And I can just slide this
one forward. Something like that. I'll
just make sure that the toe is flat on
the ground.
All right, this looks good for the upper
toe. And just like we did for the
fingers, we can alt D to duplicate this.
And we definitely need to scale this one
down. So, I'm just going to scale it in
object mode
that we want to scale this one a little
bit. So, I'm just going to scale this
one on the Y-axis. I'm going to scale it
on it local Y-axis. And to do that,
press S and Y and press Y again. And
it's going to scale it on its local
Yaxis. So, initially we're scaling it on
the global Yaxis. And that is going to
give us this kind of result. But we want
to scale it on its local Yaxis. to S and
Y twice to scale it on it local Y axis
to something like this. And I'm just
going to rotate this something like
this. Right. And press D to duplicate
this for the other tools.
O D again. And D. Right. Okay.
Okay. Let's go ahead and let's reduce
the length of some of these. So this is
going to be the smallest tool. This one
is going to follow along. And then this
one somewhere right here. Okay. And we
just push this closer to each other a
little bit more. And I can actually go
into edit mode. Select all and Ctrl E.
You can fatten this up a little bit.
Want to have some space in between these
two so that we can curve them a little
bit more easier.
Just going to select this and bring this
up. And from the front view, I'll make
sure that these are flat on the ground.
something like this. Okay.
And then we can select the
good blockouts and then we can go into
sculpt mode with the grabr brush. We can
just bring this down.
Make them match the shape of these a
little bit more.
Okay. So, something like that.
And then I'm going to bring this up.
going to push this in. Remember that arc
at the bottom of the feet. I'm just
going to push this in slightly. And I'll
make sure that this part is rounded
really nicely. Something like this.
Okay. I'll make sure to do that from
both the left and the right side.
Push this up. And I'll make sure that
right here that the blockout is flowing
into the to something like this.
Okay. And I like the way that is looking
already for the feet of our character.
All right. I'm just going to adjust the
placement of this. And once again, we
can use altB and then we can just mask
out a certain part of the view port.
Okay, I'm just going to adjust the
shapes of this or the placement of this
so they look a little bit nicer.
I'm going to scale this one down a
little bit. Yeah, something more like
that.
And I'll just rotate this and place this
correctly.
Something more like this. I can go into
edit mode. Actually, select these ones.
Ctrl E. Just scale them up a little bit
more.
All right. I like the way the shape of
the two is looking. I'm just going to
move this one back a little bit.
All right. And we are definitely need to
going to refine the shape of the of the
tool. But for right now, that looks
fine. Let's go ahead with select all.
Ctrl A. You want to apply the modifiers
to visual geometry to mesh.
And then let's go into sculpt mode on
this one. Then I'm going to use the grab
brush. I'm just going to adjust the
shape of the tools. Before we do that,
let's check if the symmetry can help us.
And yeah, we can use the X symmetry. So,
I'm just going to bring this down. I'm
just going to pull this out. Something
like this.
Okay. And then let's adjust the shape
right here
to something more like this for the
tool. Okay. We can mark out this crease
right here with the crease polish brush.
And we can just make sure that this part
is flat on the ground. Can also mark out
this crease right here. And also mark
out this crease right here.
All right, I like how this is picking.
I'm just going to make a tiny adjustment
to the feet here. I'm going to go into
edit mode. S and Y. I'm going to scale
this down a little bit more. And then
I'll just select all of these. And then
I'll push them back just a little bit
more just to fit the size and the shape
of our character.
Okay. So, make sure to just zoom out
once in a while and take a look at the
shapes of the feet. I'm just going to
use the grabr brush to push this up. So,
we want a shade line going from toes
into the feet. Something like that. I'm
just going to use the grab brush to pull
this up like this.
Okay, I'm going to bring this down. I'll
just make sure that the
blockout is flowing nicely into those.
Something like this.
And yeah, I like the way this is looking
right now. At this stage, we can do the
exact same thing that we did for the
fingers. We can go ahead and add in some
more resolution. So, I'm going to do
that on the feet. I'm going to increase
the dimens resolution
and Ctrl R to mesh this. And then I'm
just going to go ahead and smooth out
everything together. Just holding down
shift and spreading out everything.
Also smooth out the bottom right here.
And I'm just going to make sure that we
have that nice arc at the bottom of the
feet.
Something like that. And I'm just going
to make this blacks on the ground. Okay,
something like this. Looks good. I'm
going to smooth out these areas right
here. You can also just use the inflate
brush to inflate this part of the leg.
Something like that. So that we have
that nice teardrop shape. And I'll make
sure that this is symmetrical both on
the left and on the right. Something
like that. Okay. Right here on the feet.
Something that we can do is to use the
client brush to remove some volume right
here. So, I'm just going to remove some
volume right there.
Okay. Something like that. And add in
some volume right here. And I'm just
going to hold on shift to smooth this
out.
And something like that looks really,
really nice. I like how that's looking
right now. I'm going to go ahead and do
the same thing on the other side. I'm
going to remove some volume from right
here with the clear brush.
Remove some volume right here.
I'll add in some volume right here.
Remove some from here just to get those
nice shapes, those nice curvature on the
foot of the character. And we can also
just keep on removing some volume from
here to get that nice arc at the bottom
of the feet. I'll just hold on shift
smooth of these out.
All right, I like the way this is
looking. We can use the grab brush to
push this in
and also pushing this side
like so. From the bottom, we'll make
sure that that looks nice around. I'll
just go from the bottom view right
there. I'll just make sure that this
looks really nice from the bottom view.
Okay, I'm going to adjust the shape of
the toes from the bottom.
All right, something like this. And we
still want to make sure to have space in
between these toes so that when we
sculpt is a little bit easier to sculpt.
[snorts]
Something like this is going to be fine
for now. Okay, I like how this is
looking. I'm going to go ahead. I'm just
going to add in some more resolution to
one of two
somewhere around there. Ctrl R. And then
I'm just going to smooth all of this
out.
Okay. You can define the shape right
here with the crease polish brush. Just
hold on control and then mark out the
crease and mark out this crease on the
tip of the toe.
Okay. Can also mark out here like this.
And I can also mark out here just like
this.
And I'm also going to mark out these
joints right here.
And I'm going to make the to a little
bit more box like something like that.
All right. And then I can pl out with
the script brush. I can just pl out this
part of the toe.
Hold on shift and smooth this out.
All right. I like how this is looking.
Right now, we're going to make the
transition between the toe and the foot
look a lot more nicer when we merge this
together. So, let's actually go ahead
and let's mesh this together. So, I'm
just going to select this,
select the foot, ctrl G to join this
together. Okay. And now we're going to
increase our image resolution. I'll take
this really high. So somewhere around
0.0
six should be fine. And then Ctrl R to
mesh all of this together. All right.
And just like we did for the arms or for
the fingers, we want to smooth out these
transitions on the toe. So we're going
to use the clear brush. Just smooth out
the transitions.
And remember in this image right here,
you can see how the toe is flowing
nicely into the foot. You want to go
ahead and just do something exactly like
that. Just going to add in some more
volume right here.
Something like this. Just keep on adding
some more volumes to smooth out the
transitions.
also right here.
And also right here.
Okay. Something like that. And then we
can go ahead go hold down shift and
smooth out these transitions if you need
to. You can still add in more volumes if
you need to. I'm just going to smooth
out the transitions right here and these
ones. I'll add some volume here and
smooth this out. I'll smooth this one
out. I'll also smooth out this one.
Okay, we have something that looks like
this here. I like that way. I like the
way that looks. Just going to bring this
up with the grab brush to make sure that
the transition is nice between these two
objects.
Something like that. I'm going to smooth
this out.
And then we can actually use the crease
polish brush and then just mark out this
separation between each individual tool.
And I'm going to smooth out the
transitions right here also.
Hold down shift and smooth this out. I
also hold down shift and smooth out the
fits.
Smooth out transitions right here too.
Let's also do the same at the bottom of
the pits.
Going to add in some more glue with the
clay shoes brush right here
and right here too. and just smooth out
all of this.
I'll mark out these creases at the
bottom of the tool.
Something like this.
I'll push in the pinky tool just a
little bit. Something like that.
Okay.
And then I'll smooth right here so that
we have really nice and clean
transitions for each individual tool.
All right. The spacing between the two
might seem a little bit too much right
now, but that's completely fine. Once we
are done with topology, we are actually
going to
reduce the size between this feet. So
the reason I'm keeping enough space is
just so that we can easily topologize
this. Once we are done with topology,
I'm going to explain all of that in
future chapters. But for now, just make
sure to keep enough
space in between these fits.
All right.
And something like this is looking good
for the fits already. I can you can
definitely go ahead and keep on refining
this. Once again, not to make this
chapter too long. I'm just going to
leave it here. I'm definitely going to
refine this in lots more. I'm just going
to leave it here right now for our
character or to be going to clear my
viewport mask. And I can actually mirror
this over to the other side. And let's
go ahead and refine the shapes on the
body of our character. So, when it comes
to the body, the body is actually very
simple to do. This is where we want to
rely heavily on our reference. So, let
me just zoom out here and actually go to
my body reference. So, what we are going
to do, we're just going to add some more
resolution to these individual parts.
And then we're going to start merging
everything together. So, let's start off
with the legs right here. On the legs,
I'm going to go into scores mode. I'm
going to increase my image resolution to
about 0.05.
Should be fine. And the mesh resolution
is going to depend on the scale of your
scene. So if you need to go higher than
this or lower than this, that's
completely fine. Ctrl R. I'm going to
mesh this. Then I'm just going to hold
down shift and smooth out everything. I
just also make sure screen class is
still done. Okay, that looks good. I'm
just going to hold down shift and smooth
out everything. And if I just go into
object mode and I hide this so that I
can see the side a little bit more.
Remember the principle that we talked of
of cove is straight. So let me go ahead
and get that in. Right now I'm going to
select the leg and with the grab brush
I'll make the front of the leg really
curved this way.
And doing this we're just adding a lot
of rhythm and flow to our character. So
something like this for the side of the
leg looks good. Yeah, I like how this is
looking. And I'm going to define the
hips right here. A little bit more.
Okay, that's good for the upper leg. We
don't need to add much more detail than
that. I think that looks good. All
right, let me go ahead. I'll also add
some more resolution to the lower leg.
Go into sculpt mode and increase my
resolution. CtrlR to mesh this. And I'll
hold down shift and smooth out
everything. All right. On the lower
legs, I think I'm going to make some
changes based off of what I can see from
my reference. So, you can see that the
lower legs are much thicker. So, I'm
just going to use the inflate brush to
do this. And I'll add some more volume
right here. And I'll also just pull this
part out just like this. So, you can see
the way I'm just observing from my
reference and translating what I see on
my reference to my 3D sculpt. So, that
was the observation skill I was talking
about earlier. So just look at your
reference and then translate exactly
what you see on your reference onto your
3D sculpt also from the side view. Want
to keep in mind the straight side here
and then this also corp side. I'm just
going to smooth this out a lot more.
Something like this. And you want to
make sure that these two meshes, that's
the upper leg and lower leg are flowing
nicely into each other. Okay, somewhere
around there is going to be fine. And
I'm going to switch back to the upper
leg and I'm going to mark out the knee
of this character. To do that, I'm going
to use the crease polish brush. I'll
hold on control and I'll just mark out
the knee right here. So, this is just
going to be an indication for the knee.
Something like that. Once we merge these
two objects together, it's going to be
very simple to further define the knee.
But for now, something like this looks
good. And I'm just taking a look at
these shapes and I might adjust it a
little bit. I'll make this a little bit
more cool. All right.
Nice. I like how this is decaying right
now. Now, I'm going to go ahead. I'll
add some more resolution to the torso.
And at this stage, I'm just copying
exactly what I see on my reference onto
my 3D scope. So, this is my main
reference right here. I'm going to go
into sculpt mode on this to object. I'll
increase the remolution. CtrlR to mesh
this. And then I'm just going to hold
down shift and smooth over everything.
All right. Something like that. I'll
define the separation at the back a
little bit more. I'll use the crease
polish brush to define this a lot more.
Somewhere around here. And then from
here we can go to the left. Something
like this.
All right. Once we merge the leg and the
torso together, I'll be able to define
this area a lot more. But for now, this
is going to be just fine. Okay. I also
make sure that these are not
intersecting with each other. All right.
And I'm going to switch to this other
torso object. And from my reference, I
can see how tightly this place is like.
So, we just need to bring this in
something like this. And I'll actually
just take a look at this view port here.
so that I can see the changes I'm
making. The overall changes I'm making
something like this. I'm going to add
some more resolution.
And also notice how I didn't add any
details just yet. We're going to come
back to that. Control R. I'm going to
add in some more resolution. And then
smooth this out. I'm going to define
some of those details again. Just using
the crease polish brush to define this.
Like so.
Okay. And I'm going to increase the
remolution here. CtrlR to remesh this.
And then I'm just going to go ahead and
smooth out everything.
All right.
With these in place, now I'm going to
start adding some more fine details. We
now that we have a lot more resolution
going to switch to this object. I'll use
the crease polish brush to mark out the
rib cage. Something like this. So I'm
just
taking a look at my reference
transferring what I see on my reference
onto my sculpt. Something like this. You
can use the script brush and clean out
this area right here. I also do the same
right here too.
All right. Something like that looks
good. I'm going to add in some more
volume right here.
Okay. Just hold down shift and smooth
that out. All right. Something like this
is going to look good for now. Once we
actually merge these objects together,
we are going to come in and actually add
some more fine details. I'm going to go
ahead and unhide every other thing. And
we can actually delete some of this. So
we can delete this object and this
objects. I'm just going to go up to
file. I'm going to save incremental.
All right. And then I'm going to delete
this object because we don't need them
anymore. All right. I'm going to select
the hands. I'm going to go into sculpt
mode. And I'm going to add in some more
resolution.
0.03 for the hands. For me should be
fine. And then I'm going to smooth out
everything just like so.
All right, something like that looks
good. Since we already had a nice
blockout, this was this is going to be
very simple to sculpt out since we
already have a nice block out. So, I'm
just going to add some more resolution
here.
Ctrl R and I'll hold down shift and
smooth this out. All right. Right now, I
think the biceps are too short. I'm
going to elongate this a little bit
more. And I'll also bring this in just
like so. All right, this looks good. For
the arm, I'm going to define the elbow.
The way I'm going to define the elbow on
the upper arm, I'm just going to use the
grab brush to pull this out. Yeah,
something like this. So that we get this
kind of shape at the back. And then we
can use the crease polish brush while
holding down control. Can just hold down
control and mark out the elbow.
Something very simple like that. I'm
going to use the script brush. Just pl
it out. something like this.
And this is a very simple shape for the
elbows. All right. I like how this is
looking. Once you mesh the arms
together, you're going to be able to
refine the shapes a lot more. Now, I'm
just going around the sculpt making sure
that I like the whole shapes from all
angles. So, make sure you like what the
shape is looking like from all angles.
All right. Hold down shift and smooth
this out.
And let's go ahead. Let's add in more
resolution to the shoulders. I'm going
to go into sculpt mode. Increase the
image resolution here. Ctrl R to remsh
this. And then I'm going to hold down
shift and smooth this. And for the
shoulders, I just want this to merge
nicely with the body and with the arms.
So I'm just holding down shift and I'm
smoothing out everything.
All right. Now that we have this, let me
also add some more resolution to the
neck so that we don't leave that behind.
Adding some more resolution. Smoother
out. Make sure that all of these are
flowing nicely into each other. So I'm
just holding down shift and smoothing
out everything. And then I'm also just
going to mark out this line at the back.
And I'll smooth out the neck. Something
like this.
All right, this is looking good so far.
Now the next thing we are going to do,
we're going to start merging these
objects together. I'm going to start off
with the legs. For the legs, we can
select both of them and Ctrl G to join
them together. I'm going to go into
skulls mode. Now, we are going to mesh
everything together and then we'll be
able to smooth out the transitions and
sculpt out the knee. Before you do this,
make sure you're happy with the way your
shapes looks before going forward. Make
sure you're happy with the way your
shape looks. All right, I'm happy with
the way this looks. I'm just going to
save. And then I'm going to increase my
mesh solution. 0.04 should be fine. And
then Ctrl R. We can mesh all of this
together to smooth out the transitions
just like we did for the hands. I'm
going to use the glitches brush to add
in some volume right here. So, we just
want to make sure that the transition
between the upper leg and the lower leg
is really, really nice. So, I'm just
going to add in with the clear brush.
adding some more volume right here. And
I'm going to hold down shift and smooth
out everything. I'm also just going to
take a look at it from this view port
here and make sure I like the way that
the legs are looking. So just holding
down shift and smoothing out everything
and making sure that the transitions are
nice right here. Cool down shift and
smooth out everything. Okay, this is
looking good. Let me take a look at my
reference. And I'm just taking a look at
the shapes on my main concept and I'm
putting those into play right here. I
might add in some more volume with the
clues brush right here. Yeah, something
like that. And then I can smooth out the
transitions right here.
All right. Something like that looks
good. The knees are not really visible
on our concept. So, I'm just going to
slightly indicate the knees. I'm going
to smooth this out. a lot more. And to
indicate the knees, I'm just going to
use the crease polish brush just like we
did earlier. Hold down control. And then
I'm going to mark this out.
All right. I also do the same right
here,
just at the bottom. And this is just
going to indicate the shape of the
knees. So something like this looks
good. Just using the crease polish brush
to go over the knees. Yeah, something
like this is going to look just right
for the knees of our character. I'm just
going to pull this out a lot more.
Remember press straight versus cors that
we talked talked about earlier. I'm just
going to make sure that I have those in
place right now. Yeah, I like how this
is looking a lot.
Okay, I'm just taking a look at it from
all angles and making sure that that
looks good. I'm going to hide the hands
for now so that this don't get in the
way.
All right. And something I'm not seeing
on my own character. I might need to act
the back a little bit more. So I'm just
going to switch to this object with the
grab brush. I'm going to bring this in a
lot more.
Something more like that.
So we have this nice S shape at the
back. Something like this. Yeah.
That's what we want at the back. Okay.
I'm going to refine this a lot more when
I add or when I mesh these two objects
together. But for now, that is looking
good.
Okay. And I'll just go around the object
making sure everything looks good. All
right. Now, for the torso, I can go
ahead and go into object mode. I'm going
to select these three. Select these
three dso objects and Ctrl G to join
them together.
Going to go into sculpt mode. I'm going
to increase my image resolution. 0.03
around there is fine. And CtrlR to mesh
everything together. I'm going to smooth
out the transitions right here.
And also at the back, make sure that the
transitions are nice and smooth. And for
the back right here, we can just start
to drag this one out. Something like
this. So that that overlaps really
nicely with the legs. And we can also
pull this up into a nice pitch shape.
Something like that. Okay. So we can
just pull this part up. And I can bring
this down.
All right. I'm going to get rid of this.
And at the back here, I'm going to once
again make that nice S shape at the
back.
Yeah, something like that.
Okay. And I'm also going to smooth out
the transition right here. So, I'm just
adding in some volumes
and holding down shift to smooth out the
transitions. Now, to add some detail to
this, some anatomical details, we are
going to use our reference as guide.
Right here, I can see the crease at the
side. I'm going to use the crease polish
brush. I'm just going to mark out this
crease at the side. Also be taking a
look at this view port here so that I
know if that's looking nice or not. I'll
just mark out that crease. Okay,
something like that. And I can also just
use the pinch brush. I can pinch this
together so that that crease is lot more
sharper. Something like that. I can also
just like the way I see it on my
reference, I can pull out the shoulders
just a little bit more just to get our V
shape in there. And let me actually go
ahead and use the client's brush to add
in some volume here so that we can
smooth out the transitions between these
different torso parts.
Okay, so just adding in volume then with
hold down shift and smooth out
everything.
All right. I'm going to also smooth this
out.
Yeah, that looks good right there. I
like how this is looking right now. I'm
going to add some more volume right
here.
Just on the side
and holding down shift, I'm going to
smooth this out. I'm going to mark out
the center of the belly with the crease
polish brush. So, what I'm doing once
again is just copying exactly what I see
on my reference onto my own 3D sculpt.
Nothing complicated. So, I'm just going
to mark out the middle right there.
Then I can also mark out the belly
button. I'm going to use the throw brush
for this. Just mark out the belly
button.
All right. I'm going to make sure that
the shapes from the side look good. I'm
going to bring this in a little bit
more. I'll bring out the rib cage.
Yeah, something more like this. The
breast are going to sit right here. So,
we want to make sure that the rib cage
is going to be able to handle them. So,
let's let's make those shapes look
right.
Something like that looks good. I'm
going to take a look at this reference
right here.
All right. And from this reference, I
can see this crease right here on the
side. Shift C. I'm just going to bring
down this crease. And that's going to
define the stomach a little bit more. I
can use the client brush to add in some
volume right here.
And hold down shift and smooth out
everything.
All right. I really like the way this is
looking right now. to add in the breast
of our character. Before I do that, I'm
just going to unhide the arms. Alt H to
unhide the arms. And to add in the
breast is really simple. The way I like
to do it, you can actually use another
round cube object and block that out.
But the way I like to do just use the
client brush. I'm just going to So
coming out from the shoulders, I'm just
going to mark out make a number six
something like that. And then I'm just
going to build this up
with hold down shift and scroll this
out. I'll do that once again.
Okay. From the side, I'm going to make
sure this is looking all right. So, I
think right now the rib cage is too
high. So, I'm just going to bring that
down.
Okay. And we I want this to be way
bigger for you. You might want it to be
smaller or bigger. I just want it to be
a little bit bigger than this. So, I'm
just going to add some volume right
there. Hold down shift and smooth out
this.
All right. I like what I currently have
right now.
Might increase the width of the keep
right here. I can also adjust the shape
of the keep from the legs. Yeah,
something more like that.
I'm going to bring this down a little
bit more. Also, bring this down a little
bit more. Something like this looks
good. I'm going to inflate right here.
And then I'm going to crease the bottom
of the chest.
And right here, I'm going to mark this
going into the shoulders.
Something like this. So, I'm going to
mark going into the shoulders. So, just
with a crease polish brush, I'm marking
the sides or the under and then I'm
casing that into the shoulders. We're
going to refine this a lot more when we
merge the
body or the torso with the shoulders.
But for now, this looks good. I'm going
to use the inflate brush. I'm also just
going to inflate this a little bit more.
Something Yeah, something more like
that. and I'll take a look at my actual
concept to see what this looks like. And
yeah, something like this seems just
right for my own character. Go ahead and
play around with the shape and the size
of yours to see what you like. I'm going
to increase reduce the shape the back a
little bit more.
All right. I like the way this is
looking right now. Yeah, I like how this
is looking. I'm going to go ahead and
I'm going to merge the hands together.
I'll keep on refining the body, but for
now I like the way that looks. I'm going
to go ahead and merge the hands together
and I can increase the dimension
solution. Ctrl R to mesh this together.
And then we want to smooth out the
transitions right here. Just going to
smooth out the transitions. Add in more
volumes if if I need to.
Okay, like this. And I'm also going to
add this in.
Hold down shift and I'm going to zoom
this out.
All right. I'll make sure that the
shapes are looking good from all angles.
This why it's important to rotate around
your whole sculpt. Make sure everything
is looking good from all angles.
And I'm also going to smooth this out
right here.
I'm going to hold down shift and crease
out the separation between the bicep and
the lower arm.
Something like that. I won't make it too
intense. Something like this is going to
be just fine.
All right. Also take a look at it from
this viewport. Make sure that that's
looking good. And now that I look at my
reference, I might need to just go in
and inflate the size. this. I just want
to increase the size of the arm.
Something more like that. So that that
looks a lot more like my reference.
Going to increase the shape right here.
So if you notice what I'm doing once
again, I know I've said it before, once
again, I'm just taking a look at my
reference and then I'm trans
transferring what I see on my reference
to my sculpt. That's the whole goal
right now. Okay. I'm going to add some
more volume here.
smooth out the transitions.
Okay, I can also just mark this out like
so.
Hold on control. I'm going to mark this
out.
All right. like how this is looking
right now. Yeah. Lovely. I'm going to go
ahead join the arms with the shoulders.
Ctrl G to join this in. And I'm going to
increase the dimension resolution. Ctrl
R to mesh this together. And for the
shoulders, I'm just going to And by the
way, if you see a new color form just
like this, I mistakally press the
shortcut. This is just a face set. You
don't need to be worried about what this
does for now. Let's go up to mask and
then mask and then no go up to facets
and then facets from bc. All right. And
that should clear that. And now the goal
what I want to do on the shoulders is
just to make sure and I've done it
again. I'm going to go up to facets and
facets from vvisible with the clear
shoes brush. I'm just going to add in
some volume. And what I want to do is to
make sure that the shoulders is flowing
nicely into the arms. Just like this.
So, I'm just adding in some volume to
make sure that the shoulders is flowing
nicely into the arms. I can hold down
shift and smooth out on all of these.
Okay. Hold down shift and I'm going to
smooth this out.
All right.
And this right now looks really good to
me. I'm going to adjust the shape of the
rib cage. Something more. Yeah,
something more like this.
I'll define that rib cage a little bit
more.
So, with time once you're progressing on
your sculpt, you definitely see some
things that you can improve. Just like
the way I saw the I spotted the cage
right now. Just make sure that you
improve those once you actually spot
them. I'm going to make sure that the
transition between these two parts are
really nice from the side. Just going to
add in some more volume right there. And
hold down shift and I'm going to smooth
this out.
Smooth out the transition at the rest of
the back.
Hold down shift. I'm going to smooth all
of this out.
I'll mark out this separation line right
here.
All right. Something like that. I'll
hide the arms for now. I'll take a look
at it from the side view. And I
definitely want to make the back of this
character a little bit bigger. So, I'm
going to use the grab brush for this.
Going to sculpt mode. I'll use the grab
brush. I'm using a big brush size, but I
want to make a big change. So, I'm just
going to bring this out. Something more
like this.
All right. I like how that's looking.
I'll add in some more volume right here.
Hold down shift. So, I'm going to smooth
all of this out.
All right. I like how this is looking
right now. Okay. So, this is looking
good for the body of my character.
Definitely go ahead and refine the
shapes of your character a lot more. I'm
going to do a lot more refinement on
this. Right now, I think the head is too
small. So, I'm going to scale that up a
little bit. Also, on the feet, the feet
is looking a little bit too small. I'm
going to scale that up. I'm going to fix
up the proportions to make sure
everything is looking nice. So, let's go
ahead and summarize this video. So, we
sculpted the body, the hands, and the
feet in this video. And now you
understand why your observation is is
key. You have seen the way we have been
able to use our observation skills to
sculpt from our reference onto a 3D
sculpt.
And you know how to use your references.
So, you know how to observe your
references. And now you know how to
translate that onto your character. And
now you know how to sculpt the body, the
hands, and the feet for your character.
Don't forget if you need any extra help
with this, feel free to join the stylish
character academy where I'm going to be
holding your hand every step of the
process. And if you're loving this
master class so far, if you've been able
to create something with this master
class, go ahead and leave a review of
this masterass on Trust Pilot. The link
is going to be below this video. All
right, I'll catch you guys in the next
one where we are going to be sculpting
the clothing and props on our character.
So, I'll see you guys there.
>> 
>> Welcome to chapter 5. In this chapter,
we are going to be sculpting the clothes
and the accessories on our character.
Our agenda for this chapter, we're going
to take a look at how clothes behaves
and then we take a look at the anatomy
of clothes. So why clothes foods and
then we will dive into Blender and
sculpt some different clothing types. As
usual, make sure to share this master
class with someone. Let's sell more
artist create work that they are proud
of. And a little bit of warning, this is
the most important video in the entire
master class for you right now. So make
sure to to watch the entire video. All
right, let's understand how clothes
behaves. To understand how clothes
works, I want you to think of a very
simple realization. So just think about
how water behaves. So you know when you
pour that into a glass cup and when you
pour water into a bottle, it takes the
exact same form of either the glass or
the bottle that is the exact same way
that clothing follows and conforms to
the surface that it is placed on. In our
case, the surface that clothes is placed
on is the body of the character. So the
way the clothing looks, the way the
clothing flows, the way it forms shapes
is completely dependent on the structure
of your character's body. And to
understand how clothing this interesting
folds and all these interesting shapes,
we need to understand what is actually
causing them. And that's going to lead
us right into the anatomy of clothes
folds. Understanding the anatomy of
clute folds is the most important step
before you start sculpting or before you
even start drawing clothes folds because
it's going to help you to stop guessing
and start being intentional with the way
you place folds when you're sculpting.
Okay? So you need to understand that
there are two main forces that cause
clothes to fold the way that it folds.
To understand clothes folds, you need to
understand these two main forces. Every
single fold that you see in clothing is
created by either tension or
compression. Okay. So what is tension?
Tension is simply when the clothes is
being pulled on just like this. So this
can be from one point or from two points
or from multiple points. Wherever the
clothes is pulled, tension is created
and this influences how the clothes
folds form. So right here you can see
this point where she's dragging the
dress. This right here is a point of
tension and you can see the way it
creating folds on the clothes just like
this because of this tension point. So
the force right here was created by this
tension point. And then we have
compression which is the opposite of
that. When the clothes is being pushed
into itself or into another surface, it
causes the clothes to bunch up and this
is what creates compression folds. And
you can see compression folds right here
on the sleeves. So the clothes is being
pushed into itself. is also being pushed
into the body of the character and is
causing these types of folds. Now, all
folds come from these two forces. Like
we have seen, every fold that you're
ever going to sculpt is going to be a
combination of tension or compression.
It's not going to be either tension or
either compre or compression. It's going
to be a combination of both. Once you
understand this, you're going to stop
placing random folds and start placing
them with intention. So these forces
give rise give rise to the different
types of folds that you see including
and there are seven basic types of
folds. We have zigzag folds, we have
spiral folds, we have pipe folds, we
have three prefolds, we have half lock
folds, we have drop folds and we have in
folds. These seven types of fold, you
don't need to memorize them. What
matters more is you understanding where
tension and compression is happening on
your character. So let's take a look at
some examples so that we'll be able to
identify this. We can see some examples
and let's just take a look at some of
these. If I zoom in right here on we're
taking a look at the drapery folds right
now. Right here you can see this point
of tension and also right here you can
see this point of tension. And because
of those points of tension, it's
creating folds just like this. So
straight folds like this also right here
like this. And right here in the middle
right here, gravity is being is acting
downwards on this. So this there's this
kind of compression on the clothes. So
you can see the way tension and
compression created folds on this
clothes also. The same thing right here.
So for pipe folds, this fold, this
clothes is probably being held from
somewhere up here. And because of those
tension points, it's creating these
straight folds. And this clothes is also
being pushed in on itself. So it's
creating this kind of compression on the
glute. Now for zigzag folds and spiral
folds, there's a lot of compression
happening right here on the glutes, also
right here, which is causing it to make
these types of folds. that you can see
right here. So there's a lot of
compression happening on zigza folds and
spiral folds. I'm going to take a look
at drop folds right here. If you take a
look at drop fold is a bit similar to
the drippy folds that we looked at
earlier. So you can see there's a point
of tension right here. There's also
another point of tension right here. And
that's causing this straight folds down.
It's also causing this straight folds
down here. And then we have compression
acting on this one right here. If you
also take a look at half lock folds, you
can see right here there's this point of
tension from the elbow and then there's
a lot of compression happening right
here. So because of this point of
tension, you can see these straight
curves or the straight folds are being
formed and then because of the
compression this is being pushed
together also the same right here.
There's a tension point right here and
then there's compression happening right
here. So these are the different forces
acting on this type of clothes. Let's
take a look at some other clues so that
we can further identify this right here
on this clothes. You're going to see
this folds happening right here. And
these folds are happening because of
this tension point. So you can see the
way the chest is pulling on the clothes
and then is forming these tension folds
that we can see here. Also the same
thing on the arm. There's compression
happening here. So the clothes is being
pushed in on itself. And then from this
point right here, the extension here. So
some of these folds are also being
created. And this one is a little bit
similar to what we looked at earlier
like the drop folds. So we have a
tension point right here. Another
tension point which is causing this
straight fold like this. And then we
have gravity working down on this one
which is causing this kind of
compression on the CL. So you can
actually go ahead and download this pure
file. I'll leave a link below it below
this video. So, make sure to just
download that and then just go through
this clothing, these different clothing
types. Try to identify the points of
tension and also where compression is
happening on these clothes. It's going
to give you a really good understanding
of how to think about these foods when
you start sculpting or when you're
drawing foods. All right? So, make sure
to take a look at those references. All
right. Now, let's dive into Blender. and
let's actually sculpt the clothes and
accessories for our characters. Just
before we get started, I have this
character right here. So, this character
is from the Blender Studio. And I want
to show you something very important.
This character is a character that's
going to be used for animation just like
the same thing that we are trying to
achieve in this master class. So, we're
trying to create a character that's
going to be used for animation. And on
the clothes you can see the way the
folds are very subtle. So they have kept
in mind that this character is going to
deform. And when this character is going
to deform, we don't want the folds to be
excessive. So you can see the minimal
amount of folds that we have on this
clothes. So when sculpting clothes for
your own character, don't overdo the
folds. I'll show you some other examples
right here. This is another character
from the Blender Studio. This is the red
rig. So you can see the minimalistic
folds that we have on the character. You
can see that the fold is not like
everywhere on close. It's just in some
certain points so that when this
character deforms, it still looks good.
Also, this last character right here, we
have
very minimalistic folds on the clothes
right here. And you can actually
download this character from the Blender
Studio to take a look at them by
yourself. Now, let's actually dive into
Blender. And let's get started with
working on the clothes. So, this is
where we left off in the last chapter.
And in this chapter, we are going to be
sculpting a couple of things today. So,
I'm going to show you instead of me just
showing you how to approach this
specific type of clothing. I'm going to
show you how to approach sculpting a
shirt just like this. So, something like
this. We're going to sculpt something
like this. And then I'll show you how to
sculpt trousers just like this. and then
we'll move on to sculpting this type of
skit. And then I'm going to show you how
to sculpt the boots or just shoes in
general. And then we're actually going
to go ahead and sculpt the hair for our
character also. So with this with these
four clothing items, it should give you
a really good understanding of how
you're going to sculpt any clothing that
you need for any of your character cuz
our concepts are going to be different.
So with this for clothing, it should
give you a good idea of how to approach
sculpting loose. All right. So let's get
started with the shirt. This one right
here. Okay. To get started with
sculpting clothes, we are going to start
off with a cube. So shift a mesh and
then let's add in a cube right here
inside of Blender. With this cube
selected, let's go into edit mode. And
we are going to use very simple box
modeling to block out the forms of the
clothes. And then we'll go ahead and
sculpt on the clothes. So with the box
selected, let's just move this down to
where the shirt would be. Somewhere
around here. We can select this edge and
then we can just start to move it into
place. Something like that. I can select
this face right here. E and Z to extrude
it. And I'm just going to place it
somewhere around here. So the CL is
going to end somewhere around here. I
can add in one look what here and scale
this down. So right here you can see the
way the CL is following the shape of the
body. So I'm just going to make sure
it's also following the shape of my own
character. Something like this.
Okay. I'm going to add in one look at
the side here and also one L cut at the
middle. And to avoid having to do it
both on the left and on the right side,
we are going to add in a M modifier. I'm
going to show you a quick way of adding
the M modifier. Go up to edits and in
preferences under get extensions, just
search for the auto mirror add-on. This
one right here. Make sure it's installed
on your computer. Then you can close out
of that. If you press the end panel and
you go to the edit section right here.
So just look at this sidebar. see this
edit and then you should see auto mirror
right here.
The default settings are fine. If you
just click on auto mirror, it's going to
mirror this over to the other side and
it's [snorts] going to automatically add
in the M modifier. It's also going to
delete half of the geometry for us so
that we don't have to do it. So that's a
really quick way of adding the M
modifier. All right, I'm going to just
pull this out. We're going to pull out
the sleeves from right here. I can also
add in another loop cut right here. And
we are going to pull out the sleeves
from right here. So these faces right
here. And we can select these faces in
the middle. We are going to insert these
faces. So I to insert these faces. And
we want these faces to stick to the
boundary right here to the boundary of
the mirror. So we can press B so that it
can stick to the boundary right there.
Okay. And I can just bring this up right
here. This is going to be the neck hole
on the shirt. So, we can actually X and
delete these faces right here. We're not
going to need those faces anymore. Also,
the same thing at the bottom. We can
select the faces at the bottom and X to
delete these faces. All right, let's add
in some more Lots. Ctrl R. I'm going to
add one more L right there. Ctrl R. I'm
also going to add in another one at the
back. Okay, let's keep going. I'm going
to select these faces and we can extrude
out the sleeves. The sleeves, if you
look closely on this clothes, are really
short and slanted this way. So, the
exact same thing I'm going to do. I'm
just going to extrude this once and I'm
going to place it where the sleeves are
going to be. We're going to We're going
to adjust this a lot more. But for now,
this is going to be fine. I'm going to
move this back somewhere around here.
Okay. S and Y. I'm going to scale this
down. G and Y. And this looks good for
the clothes. I can just GG to slide this
in. GG to slide this in so that it fits
the shape of the arm a little bit more.
I'm also going to select this one and GG
to slide it down like so. I can add in
Okay, I'm not going to do that right
now. That looks good. I'm going to
select this edge right here.
And I want to move this closer to the
body of the character. I'm going to G
and bring this in is a bit more. So, I'm
just grabbing it closer to the shape of
the body. And also the same thing at the
back right here.
I'm going to grab it and move it right
there. All right, this is looking good
already. I can add in one loop right
there. I can select this one and move it
so that it's not intersecting with the
body of our character. Can also select
this one and scale it more towards the
neck. And I can move this one back. I'm
going to add in one more look cut here
so that we have some more geometry to
work with. And right here, you can
actually delete those faces. So X and
I'm going to delete those faces right
there. I'm going to add in one look what
in front. And then I'm also going to add
in one at the back right there. Alt S.
I'm just going to scale that out so that
it's not intersecting with the body of
our character. Also the same thing right
here. I'm just going to scale that up to
make sure it's not intersecting with the
body of our character. All right, we
have something that's looking good for
the blockout. I'm going to make sure
that this also following the shape of
our character from the side. So S and Y,
I'm going to scale this down. I select
this one. S and Y can scale it down.
Something like that. And then also the
same thing here. You can scale this one
down just like this.
Okay,
this is looking good right now. I'm
going to add in some more L cuts right
here. All right, with these in place, we
can actually go into sculpt mode to make
use of the sculpting brushes. We want
this clue to lie much better on the
surface of the sculpt. So, I'm going to
go into sculpt mode. And I'm mainly
going to use the grab brush for this.
So, G for the grab brush. And we can
start pushing and pulling this into
place. I'm just going to push this down.
Something like this. And you can also
hold down shift to smooth it out.
Okay. I'm going to push this closer and
just to be able to see the close mesh a
little bit easier. Right now I'm going
to go up to view port shading and then
I'm going to change this to object. And
once I've changed that object, I'll go
to the object properties under view port
display. I'm going to change the color
to just a random color. Something like
this. All right, this looks good right
now. I'm going to use the grab brush.
Make sure this is not intersecting the
mesh. And then I can also hold down
shift and then just smooth out on this
other parts of the clothes right here.
And I'm going to bring this down. I'm
just going to make this lie on the
clothes a little bit more. All right. So
this clothes is going to be tucked into
the trouser. So I'm just going to make
this lie really closely to our character
on the side too.
Okay. And I'm going to smooth out these
areas.
Something like this. And I'll just make
sure that that's looking good from all
angles. If it is intersecting through
your mesh, you can use the inflate
brush. And then you can just inflate
this out.
Something like this just to make sure
it's not intersecting. Some parts might
still intersect. That's completely fine.
That's because we don't have enough
geometry right now. So that's completely
fine. I'm just going to move this down.
And also something like this looks good.
I'm going to make the sleeves look a bit
more something like this.
And also the sleeves. I'm just going to
going go back into this mode. I'm going
to scale this down from the side. So S
and Y just scaling it on the Y axis.
Something like this. And I'm definitely
going to bring this up a little bit
more.
And I can select this one right here and
bring it up a little bit. If your
character was wearing a long sleeve, it
will be the exact same case. You just
select this and extrude it to the wrist
right here. And then you add in more
lucas to define the shape of a long
sleeve. But for now, this looks good.
Okay. Something I'm going to do, I'm
going to go into edit mode. I'll select
all with A and right click. I'm just
going to subdivide this once. When I
click the subdivision, I'm going to come
down here. And then I'm just going to
take the smoothness to one. All right.
Now we have a lot more geometry to work
with. And now we're going to use this to
make the final shape of the clothes. So
I'm just going around making sure that
the color is round throughout the whole
neck. And if this is intersecting, we
can use the inflate brush to inflate
this out. And then we can smooth out the
parts that we don't need to be inflated.
We can also still use the grab brush to
pull all of these out.
Okay, I'm going to grab this out. Also,
the same thing like this. Just going to
smooth all of these out. I can use the
grab brush and pull this down.
All right. Something like this is
looking really, really nice. I'm also
just going to switch my view port
display here to object so I can see the
way is looking overall from this view
port right here. And I'm just adjusting
the shapes is all I'm doing at this
point. Adjusting the shape so that it
looks right so that we have a nice block
out that we can walk off from. So I'm
just using the ground brush to pull this
into place. I'm also using the smooth
brush to smooth out some of these areas.
I'm just going to smooth out this area
so that it's much closer to the body of
our character. Something like this. And
right here, I'm noting an opening right
here. So, I'm going to go into edit
mode. If you notice something like this,
you can just go into edit mode and then
just join those back together. Something
like that.
All right. I'm going to use the grab
brush and I'm going to define the shapes
of this a little bit more. Right now, I
think we have too many loops at the
middle here. So, I'm just going to
remove one of those loops. And something
more like this is going to be much
better. Okay.
And once again, I'm going to make sure
that this is following the shape of the
clothing. Something like this. And I to
inflict
this last row, X, and delete these
faces. Okay. Somewhere around there.
Actually looks good. I can select this
one and GG to slide it up. I'm also
going to slide this one up. And I'm
going to make sure that this is really
close to the body of the character.
All right. Something like this looks
good. Right here on the chest, we also
still want to make sure that the clothes
is lying on the chest. So, I'm just
going to use the grab brush and pull
that area down.
Okay. We want to make sure that it's
aligned on the chest. Something like
this.
Okay. And I'm also going to inflate this
right here. I'm also going to inflate
this right here.
Okay. I'm going to use the relax slide
brush. So, this one right here. You can
search for the relax slide brush. This
one. And if you hold down shift, it's
going to smooth out the topology right
here.
So I'm just holding down shift and I'm
just smoothing out the topology. And
then I switch back to the grab brush to
just smooth out the topology even more.
All right.
I'm going to inflate right here.
And I'm going to bring this up. And then
I'll just smooth out over this area so
that we don't have cords or geometry
that's too bunched up together. So I'm
just going to bring this in
and I'm going to bring this down. Make
sure it's not intersecting through the
hand. So just make sure to take your
time at the blockout stage to have a
nice blockout for your clued.
All right, this is looking good right
here. I like how this is looking right
now. You can definitely keep on tweaking
this, but for now, I'm going to call
this done. All right, I'm going to go
into objects mode. The next steps, once
the blockout is done, I'm going to go to
the modifier stack right here. I'm going
to apply the new modifier. Okay, now
that we've applied the new modifier, you
can go ahead and just smooth out the
back so that it's a little bit smooth.
just those middle areas can actually go
in and smooth them out a little bit
more.
And when you're doing that, make sure to
turn on X symmetry so I can actually
make use of the Xmetry. Xmetry wasn't
turned on when I was doing some of those
changes. So, I'm just going to symmetize
this. Okay. And now that I've symmetized
this, we have issues like this. So, I'm
just going to come here. We want all of
these. Just want this one vertex right
here. So M I'm going to make this at
center. M I'm going to make at center.
And M I'm going to make at center. And
also the same thing right here. And we
just make sure that those vertices are
in place. All right. Something like this
looks really, really nice. I'm going to
inflate this out just a little bit more.
Okay. I like how this is looking right
now. The next thing we're going to do
from this point on now we can go ahead
and start adding folds on this glute.
And the way we're going to do that is
with the multi-resolution
modifier. And I'm going to add in a
multi-resolution modifier right here.
And I'm going to subdivide this. And
we're going to subdivide this once
again. So what the M resolution modifier
is doing. If I go into SC mode, you can
see that it's giving us some more
geometry that we can work with on our
CL. And you might you might be asking
what's the difference between the
multi-res and the subdivision surface
modifier. So let me just illustrate
that. I'm going to duplicate this and
I'm just going to move this to the side.
I'm going to remove the multi from this
and I'm going to add the subdivision
surface modifier on this. I'll change
the view port levels to two.
Now this mesh that has the solivations
of it. If I try to go into sculpt mode
and I try to sculpt on this, you can see
that this new geometry that it
generated. So the subdivided geometry I
generated, we can't actually work with
that. We are still working with the
initial vertices that we had. But with
the multi-res, we can actually go in and
work with those individual new faces
that he created. So that's the
difference between the subdivision
surface and the multi-res. On the
multi-res you can sculpt on the
subdivided pieces, but on the
subdivision surface you can't really do
that. So I'm just going to delete this
and I hope that clears that up. All
right, I'm going to go into sculpt mode
and I'm just going to use the grabr
brush. I'm going to start pulling some
of this out from each other. Something
like that. Going to pull this out. I'm
also going to pull this out right here.
Okay. And now the next thing that I'm
going to start doing is to sculpting
folds on this clothes. So just like we
looked at earlier, importance of tension
and compression. So on this clo since
it's really tight to the body, there's
going to be some compression right here
on the clothes. So right here we're
going to have some folds. But remember,
we don't want to overdo the folds. Since
this character is going to be used for
animation, we still want that when this
character deforms, the fold still looks
nice. So, we're just going to add a
really solid fold. And for adding in
folds, we don't want to use the x
symmetry. So, we don't want to rely on
symmetry for this. We actually want to
turn this off so that we sculpt a
symmetrical fold. All right. with the
draw brush to this brush right here. I'm
going to start adding some of those
compression happening on the clothes
right here. So, I can just use the door
brush and I can draw this out. Something
like this. I can just go ahead and do
that again. I'm going to draw this out
here. A fold like that is going to look
good. And then I can make another branch
coming out from that fold right there. I
can take this one all the way to this
corner right here. Something like that
is looking good. And then I can dig in
this area. So I'm holding on control and
I'm just digging in on this area where
we had those folds right here. At the
back we can do something like this.
Okay. So we have folds looking like
that. I'm just going to connect these
two folds together. Something like that.
Okay. And I'm going to hold down
control. I'm just going to mark this
out. So, I'm just digging in those areas
like so. Then I can come in here and
just connect this fold. Something like
this. At this point, you want to make
sure you're using reference when
sculpting folds.
If you try to sculpt folds without using
reference, you're going to have
something that looks really bad. So,
make sure at this point that you find a
reference that you like and make sure
you're actually using reference at this
point. All right.
And now that we have this with the draw
brush, I'm just going to hold down shift
and lightly smooth over all of this.
Okay.
All right. And on styliz characters,
something that makes folds look really
good is when we actually sharpen the
folds. So, I'm going to use the crease
polish brush for this. I'm going to hold
down control. I'm just going to mark out
on these folds right here. So just
something like this. I'll do that again.
I'll just hold down control and just
mark out on this fold. Just like this.
And you can already start to see what
that definition how that definition is
making the fold look good. I'm going to
crease out this area again. Okay. So I'm
just creasing out that low point right
there. I'm going to also crease out this
bottom area right here.
are still holding our control. I'm just
going to define some of these folds like
this. Okay. So, something like this for
the folds look good. I'm also going to
hold on control, mark out this area
right here. Remember I said we don't
want to overdo the folds. So, something
like this is already looking good. Like
so. I'm going to hold on control and
then just mark out all of these.
Okay. I'm also going to hold on control
and mark out some of these like so. And
also when you're sculpting folds, you
want to avoid making the folds look
parallel. So you want to avoid making
parallel folds like this. So when the
folds are just the same, it tends to
look bad. So you want to avoid that. So
try to get in curves and diagonals when
you're sculpting in the folds. I'm just
using still using the crease polish
brush to mark out those folds that we
have on the clothes right here.
So something like this for me is
starting to look good. Okay, I'm going
to mark out this area right here.
And I'm going to hold on control and
just keep on marking out this area. I
can smoo over some of this. Okay. And I
can further go in and define these folds
even more.
All right. Something like this for the
clothes looks good. Around that area
looks good. We I'm going to come back to
define that a little bit more. I'm just
going to add in some of the folds at the
armpit region right here. So, if you
take a look at our reference, you can
see there's a lot of compression and
tension from the shoulder happening on
the shoulders right here. So, I'm going
to use the draw brush. We can just draw
holds out like this. Okay, something
like this. Just going to draw this out.
Actually, for this one, I'm going to
turn on X symmetry just so I can do it
on both sides. And then I'll actually go
and turn off X symmetry and then adjust
both sides. So, I'm just going to draw
this in place. Just something like this.
Okay, remember I want to keep this
subtle. Something like that. I'm going
to use the crease polish brush
and I'm going to mark out these folds.
Just defining these folds with the
crease polish brush. Something like
that.
All right. I'm going to smooth over
everything. Something like that. And
then we can bring this much closer
together.
Something more like this. Okay, I like
how this is looking. I'm going to bring
this even much closer. Something like
this. And I'll just make sure that the
shapes on the sleeves are actually
looking nice.
I'm going to make sure that this is not
intersecting. And I'll make sure that
this is actually closer to the surface
of the body.
I'm going to use the grab brush to pull
this out.
And I'm going to use the dry brush to
just make sure that the shapes on the
sleeves are actually looking really,
really nice. I'm going to use the draw
brush. I'm just going to add in some
folds right here.
Okay. Something like that. You can
further define this with the crease
polish brush. I'm just holding down
control and I'm marking out these folds
right here.
All right. Something like that. I'm not
going to overdo it too much. I'm going
to ring this out a little bit more. All
right. Something like that looks good
for the folds on this clothes. I'm going
to go into object mode and I'm just
going to shade this smooth. All right.
We can increase the resolution on the
material so that we can define this a
lot more. So, I'm just going to
subdivide this once.
Okay. I'll go back into scor mode. And
now we're going to have some more
resolution to help us define some of
these folds. I'll turn off X93 and I'm
going to go back in with a crease polish
brush and just start defining the folds
on this clothes.
Okay, something like this. Just going to
define those folds a lot more.
Just hold it now. control adding
those folds. Going to hold on control
here and define this fold. And then I
can also just switch back to the grab
brush. Just make sure that this is on
sitting on the character.
Something more like this.
Okay, that looks good. And I'm also
going to define these folds at this area
right here. I'm just holding down
control and marking this out. Also the
same thing right here. And also the same
thing right here. Just marking this out.
Okay. And we have really nice folds
on the bottom of the clothing. Something
like that. And we also have really nice
folds right here. I'm just going to
define this a lot more before I move on.
So, you want to make sure you're happy
with the way your folds look before
moving on. So, just make sure you're
always taking a look at your reference
and make sure you like what your folds
are looking like. Okay, that seems fine
for now. I'm going to use the crease
polish brush right here and define these
creases around the armpits right here.
Okay. So, just holding down control and
using the crease polish brush to define
these edges right here.
Okay. I'm going to hold on control and
mark this out using the crease polish
brush. For that,
I'm also going to do the same at the
back. using the crease polish brush. Can
hold on control and define the edges
right here.
All right. Uh something like this is
looking good. Definitely go ahead and
refine the shape of yours a little bit
more. Much more than I have done. Okay.
If I were to take this further, I have
refine it a lot more. But since you have
a lot of clothing types to do, I'm just
going to leave it here for right now.
Something you can also do is just to add
a solidifier modifier. So you can search
for the solidifier modifier here and add
that. And you can increase the thickness
something like this just so that the
clothes has thickness. And also in the
solidify modifier, if you go into sculpt
mode, as long as the multi modifier is
enabled, you're not going to see the
solidify in sculpt mode. So that's just
a usual behavior in blood dye. You don't
need to worry about that.
Okay. So something like this is looking
good. Can go in and further adjust the
shape of the sleeves even more. for
right now. This is looking good. All
right. Now, the next item or the next
load that we are going to go ahead and
sculpt is trousers. Just like this. And
we're going to use the exact same steps
that we used to add the shirt. So, shift
A. Let's go ahead and let's add in a
cube right here. I'm going to go into
edit mode and I'm going to bring this
down right here. Okay. For the trousers,
I'm just going to overlap them on the
shirt a little bit more.
And I'm going to select these verses at
the bottom here. S and X to scale them
out from the side. I'm going to scale
this a little bit small to fit the shape
of the character. S and Y, you can scale
this one down. Something more like that.
I'm going to go ahead press N to bring
up the sidebar. And then using the auto
mirror, we can select this and it's
automatically going to add the M
modifier for us. All right. And nice.
I'm going to select this one and I'll
just move that up. So we are going to
extrude the sleeves for the leg from
right here. I'm going to add in one loop
at the middle right here. So that can
just have some space at the middle. I'm
going to select this edge at the top
here. I'm going to move that out. All
right. You can also add in one loop cut
at the middle. And we can bring this one
down and add in one right here and one
right here. I'm going to select this one
and this one. And then I'm going to move
them down. I can select this one and
this one. And then I'm going to move
them up. Something like this.
Okay, that's going to look good for now.
We are going to refine this a lot more.
Okay, I'm going to add two loop cuts
right here. That's going to look good.
And I'm also going to add in two loop
cuts right here. We don't need all these
faces at the top here. So X and we can
delete those faces. Okay, I'm with
select right here. So I'm just going to
select these these faces at the bottom
right here. You can isolate with slash
to make sure you're not missing anyone.
Okay, that looks good. And then I'm
going to E to extrude this. And for this
one, I'm just going to extrude it to the
knee right here. So on this close, you
can see the way it's tight at the knee
and then it kind of it kind of funnels
out at the bottom. So I'm just going to
leave it at the knee for now. I'm going
to scale this down somewhere around
here. We don't need all these faces. So
X and then we can delete those faces
right here. I'm going to select these
edges. I'm just going to move them back.
All right. Something you want to do on
these edges is to round them out a
little bit. Right now it's too squared
off. So, to round this out, you can go
to edit, preferences. We're going to
enable an add-on. Just search for the
loop tools add-on. This one right here.
And then make sure it is installed on
your computer. And then you can close
out of that. If you right click, you're
going to see this loop tool option. And
then you can choose circle right here.
Okay. Nice. And you can scale this down
to fit the shape of the knee. Something
like that. also from the side. I'll make
sure that that's also following the
shape of the knee. And then we can add
in more look cuts right here. Okay, with
this, let's actually just go into
sculpts mode. And then let's just smooth
out some of these areas. So inside of
sculpt mode, we can smooth this out. So
I'm just smoothing out these areas.
Holding down shift and smoothing out
these areas like so. Can also smooth out
right here. And I'll make sure that this
is following the shape of the body a
little bit more than what we had before.
Something like that. And I can also
smooth out this area right here.
And I'm going to move this out.
All right. Something like that looks
good. To see the shapes of the clude a
little bit more, I'm going to change the
color right here and change to a dark
color. Just something like this. All
right. And we are going to need some
more geometry. I'll go into edit mode.
I'll add in more geometry there. And
just add in a few loop codes right here.
Can also add in more right here. Okay.
With this, we can go back into sculpt
mode. And then we can just use the grab
brush. And for that refine the shapes of
the clothes. And if it's intersecting
like this, you can just use the inflate
brush and inflate that out.
Okay, something like that. Then we can
also smooth this out. And I can use the
inflate brush right here. And we can
inflate this a little bit more. I to
inflate this. And I'm just going to
inflate this out. I'm also going to
inflate the back right here. And then
I'm going to smooth all of this out like
so.
And I'm also going to bring this out
like so. I'm going to use a brush and
push this out just so that's following
the shape of the clute a little bit
more.
And I'll push this out. Something like
that.
At any point that intersects, you can
either use the grabr brush or the
inflate brush to move that out. Okay, at
the top right here, I'm just going to
make sure that this is also above the
shirt. So, the shirt is going to be
tucked into the trousers. So, something
like this.
It's going to work just fine for our
needs.
And then I'm going to smooth out right
here.
And I'm going to inflate it this way.
Okay. Something like this looks good.
So, just keep on smoothing that out
until you like the shapes that you have
on your blockout. Something like this is
going to look just fine for me. Okay. I
like the way this is looking right now.
I'm going to relax this with the relax
light brush. Like the way the shapes are
looking right now. We definitely still
come back in to adjust this a lot more.
I can select these pieces at the bottom
here and E and S and Z. We can just
scale extrude this down and scale it up.
And then I'm going to move it right
here.
Something like this. And for this type
of clothes, actually, it actually looks
like it's covering up the whole leg. So,
I'm just going to do the exact same. And
by the way, if
versus me in the middle like this, you
can come in to the modifiers. And for a
moment, just turn off clipping and then
bring that out. Just push that out. And
then you can turn clipping back on.
Okay. We don't want the Ves to be messed
at the middle right there. Okay.
Somewhere around here is fine. And then
I'm going to add in some more loop cuts
right here. I'm going to add in eight
loop cuts. Looks just fine for me. And
then I'm going to use the grabr brush.
And then we can start pushing this into
place. Something like that.
I'm going to make sure that this is not
intersecting the leg.
And I'm also going to do the same thing
at the bottom right here.
I'm going to inflate this out. Something
like this. And I'm just going to push
this back also. Something like this.
I'm going to inflate this out. also
indicate this out.
And I'm just adjusting the shape to get
something that I like.
Okay.
And I'm liking the way this shape is
looking right now. I'm going to go into
object mode. I'm going to shade this
smooth early on. So from somewhere
around here, that looks good.
I'm going to inflate the shapes right
here a little bit more. And I'm just
refining the shapes until I get what I
what I like. And also at this point, I'm
taking a look a close look at my
reference to see how the shapes are on
the reference so I can transfer those
onto my sculpt.
Okay,
something like this is looking just
right for me.
Okay, I like the way it's looking right
now. Yeah, that looks really nice. I'm
going to go into edit mode. I'm going to
select all and I'm going to stop divide
this so that we have some more geometry
to work with. Before I go ahead and add
in the multi, I'm just going to adjust
this a little bit more so that the shape
looks good from all angles. Okay. So,
I'm just going to bring this in. You can
smooth over it. Something like that.
Okay.
And you want to make sure that the
vertices in the middle are actually at
the middle. So, just push that back to
the middle. You can select all and then
just GX and then move them back to the
middle. Okay, I'm going to go into
sculpt mode and I'm just going to relax
some of this geometry right here. So,
I'm just using the relax slide brush.
I'm holding down shift and I'm relaxing
the geometry right here. Okay,
right here. And I'm going to also relax
the geometry.
And I'm going to simul the transition
right here.
And I'm going to bring this out.
Okay, this so far is looking good for
the blockout of the trousers. I'm going
to just bring the trousers up just a
little bit more.
Something somewhere around here. And
then I'm going to just switch back to
the shirt for a little bit. And then I'm
going to just push this up somewhere
around here.
Also, just make sure that that's not
intersecting.
So, we want the shirts and the trousers
to work well together. I'm just going to
push this up
something like that. And I can adjust
the shapes on the trousers
a little bit more. Something like this.
All right, I'm going to add a solidify
modifier to this also.
And something
like this is looking good. I'm just
going to adjust the shape. Something
like this.
Okay, I'll make sure that the shape of
the trousers is looking nice before I go
ahead and add in the multi resolution
surface modifier.
All right, I'm happy with the way this
looks right now. I'm going to apply the
mirror modifier. We don't need to apply
the solidifier modifier. We can just go
ahead and add in the motor resolution
modifier and I'm going to subdivide this
twice for now. Should be just fine.
Okay, I'm going to smooth out the shapes
that we have. I'm going to make sure
turned on just so I can make use of X
symmetry. I'm going to smooth this out.
Uh, then inflate this out. Something
like that. And I'm also just going to
use the client brush adding some volume
right here where I can see some indents.
I'm just using the
CL brush to add in volume right there.
And then I'm fixing up those shapes to
make sure that it looks nice.
Okay.
Something like this I'm liking a lot. I
can also just switch to my body object.
And then I can just push that in a
little bit more so that it fits the
shape of the clothes a little bit more.
And I'll just add in some more volume
right here. Okay. To sculpt the folds on
this type of glutes, let's start right
here. So you can see right here if I
zoom here, you can see the tension
happening on the clut right here. So I'm
just going to use the draw brush in this
case. I'm just going to draw this out.
Something like this.
So, I'll draw one there. Draw out
another one right here. Yeah. And I can
draw another one coming out this way.
Okay. Something like this.
Something like this is looking good. I'm
going to subdivide this one more time.
Just so I can have some more geometry to
work with. Okay. Something like this.
And also something like this looks good.
I'm going to smooth over all of this.
And now we want to sharpen this a lot
more with the crease polish brush. I'm
just going to use the crease polish
brush. Mark this out right here.
And I'm also going to hold down control
and just sharpen the crease right there.
So on styl
sharp crease looks really nice. So I'm
just going to hold down control and I'm
marking out this crease. Something like
that.
And also something right here.
I'm just marking this out
like so. All right. I like how that is
looking so far. I'm going to make sure
not to overdo it so it doesn't start to
look really uncomfortable on the
clothes. Somewhere around there is
looking fine. I'm also just going to go
ahead and mark out the seams on this
clothes. And I did mention this when we
were sculpting the shades, but to mark
out the se is really easy. If I'm use
the draw brush or the draw sharp brush
right here, this one.
And then I can just use the drawer brush
and then draw the seams.
I'll take that all the way to the back.
Okay, I'll make sure that that is also
still looking nice. Make it all the way
to the back somewhere around there.
I'll just go over this one more time.
Okay.
Somewhere around here. It's going to be
fine. To sharpen this crease a little
bit more, I can use the pinch brush to
just pinch this in a little bit so that
that crease looks much tighter.
I'm just using the pinch brush
and I'm pinching
the crease right here so it doesn't so
it looks sharper.
Okay, that looks much cleaner for the
crease right there. Okay, and right here
I'm going to add a patch. I'm going to
use the clay brush and I'm just going to
add in the volume right here at the
middle of the trouser. So, just
something like this. And I'm just going
to make use of symmetry for this one.
And then I'm going to sculpt over this.
And then we can further define the
shapes that we have right there.
So I'm just using the script brush to
clean out the front right there.
Something like that is looking good. I'm
going to use the crease polish brush and
I'm just going to mark out the sides.
And still using the crease body brush,
I'm just sming out the sides.
And I'm also going to do the same right
here. I'll just sharpen these edges
right here.
All right. So, I'm liking how that is
looking. I can reduce the shape of this
a little bit small if needed. And from
the side, I'm just going to make sure
that that's looking straight and flat
from the side. I'm just going to use the
grab brush to just pull this in a little
bit more.
Okay, that looks good right here. I'm
just going to mark out the crease
with the crease polish brush. Mark out
the crease right here.
All right. And I really like how that's
looking. So add in some folds at the
bottom here. So because this part is
really tight to the clothes, there's no
much folds there. But to adding folds
right here, I can use the crease polish
brush and I can just hold down control
and I'm just marking down a straight
edge down. Something like that. Okay.
I'll take a look at it from this view
port here. And I'm just going to smooth
over everything.
Holding on control and I'm marking this
down.
Then I'm going to bring this ones down
and also bring this ones up.
Okay. Something like this is looking
good. I can also still use the crease
polish brush to mark out another fold
right there. So the extension coming on
coming out from right here. So we have
this type of straight folds. Just
something like this. I'm not going to
overdo this. Okay. Something like that
should be fine. So we are still keeping
in mind that this clothes is going to
deform.
So I'm just going to keep it really
simple. Something like that.
And I'm just going to also use the
script brush. Just plain out the sides.
Make sure that the sides are looking
really nice and sharp. So, I'm just
going to blend that out from the side.
And also the same thing right here. I'm
going to blend this out. Then I'm going
to hold down shift and smooth over all
of these. I'm going to just use the
crease polish brush you gave and mark
out that area right there.
Okay. Something like this is already
looking really, really nice. I like how
this is looking so far. Okay.
Yeah, something like this is looking
really nice. I like how this is looking
right now. Okay. Something I'm going to
do is just to add in some folds at the
back where the knee is going to bend
since there's going to be a lot of
compression right there. I'm just going
to add in a fold right there. And the
way I'm going to do that, I'm just going
to draw out Z
something like this. So, I'm going to do
that again. Z something like that. I'll
take a look at it from the other view
ports just to make sure that everything
is looking nice. Okay, I'll smooth over
everything and then I'll come in and
sharpen the edges of the folds.
Holding down control, I'm just going to
mark out the folds like this. So, this
is the point where the knee is going to
bend. So, it's going to be fine for that
compression or for this folds to be
here.
Okay, something like that is also
looking good.
And then I'm just going to mark this
out. Also hold down control here and
mark this one out.
And then you can definitely find that a
lot more. Holding down control and just
defining the foods that I laid out
earlier.
And if you need to, if you need more
geometry, you can definitely subdivide
this a lot more. For now, I'm going to
leave it the way it is. And yeah,
something like that is really going to
look just right. And also right here,
there also still be some tension right
here. We can just add in some folds at
the back right here. I'm not going to
overdo the ones at the back. Something
like this.
Okay.
Yeah, something like that is going to be
just fine. I'm going to smooth out these
shapes. I'm not going to overdo the one
at the back here.
So, still keeping in mind the
commissions when this starts to deform.
Will they look good? That's just the
question I was asking myself right
there. Just to make sure that this looks
nice. I'm going to smooth out this one
here. I'm just going to add in some
folds right here.
Something more like this. Okay. And I'm
going to sharpen the edges right here.
Okay. Something like this is looking
good. I'm just going to define this
crease a little bit more. Okay. Right
here. We can also just define the crease
of the belt. So, we can use the draw
shaft brush and we can just define the
crease going to the back. Okay. And then
just take a look at the position right
there. And you position like this looks
good. I'm going to bring this back
all the way
to the back right there.
Okay. And I'm just going to go over this
again.
Nice. I'm going to use the pinch brush
and I'm just going to pinch this crease
right here.
I'm also going to do the same right
here. I'm also going to do the same
right here.
And the same right here.
I'm going to use the grab brush. I'm
just going to adjust this a little bit
more.
Okay, I'm going to use the pinch brush
and I'm going to pinch that a little bit
more.
All right. And I'm really happy with the
way this is looking right now. You could
definitely go in and keep on ticking
this right now. But for right now, I
think this is going to be fine so that
we don't make this chapter too long. We
still have the skirts to cover and the
boots to cover. So something like this
for now is going to look good. If you're
sculpting trousers like this, just
always make sure that you're taking a
look at reference to make sure that the
folds on your clothes looks good. And
I'm just going to adjust this a little
bit more before I can call it done.
All right. Something like this is going
to look just fine.
like something like this looks just fine
for the trousers. I'm going to adjust
the color here a little bit more.
All right. And I like how this is
looking so far for the trousers. All
right. Now, let's take a look at how
we're going to sculpt this type of
pleated skirt. So, something like this.
So when we learn how to make this type
of variation, then it will be easy
enough to
make variations for this types and these
other types of sket. So this is what
we're going to be sculpting right now.
So I'm just going to go ahead. I'm going
to hide this one. And to sculpt the
sketing
from a cube, it's going to be way easier
to start from a circle. So shift A. I'm
going to mesh and then I'm going to add
in a circle.
And on that circle, I'm going to change
the number of edes here. I'm going to
change it to 33.
All right, the circle is right here. I'm
just going to isolate this with slash
and I'm going to go into edit mode. I'm
going to press seven on the numpad to go
to the top view. Or you can just press
right here. And with all the selected,
make sure everything selected with A.
I'm going to go up to select. And then
I'm going to go to checker deselect.
Under the checker deselect, I'm going to
change the selected to two. Okay. And
I'm going to press Ctrl I to invert my
selection. All right. With this in
place, I'm going to select this,
scale it in,
and then I'm going to rotate it
something like this.
Okay. So I'm just rotating it and
scaling it. Something like this. And
then you can use
can select these edges. So these longer
edges right here. Just going to go
around and select those longer edges.
I'm going to right click and I'm going
to subdivide on those. Okay. And we can
further come in here, select those edges
that we just subdivided. So those those
new verses I just added
and alt s you can just scale this out a
little bit more or you can just use s
the same thing.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like this. Can select this and E and Z.
We can scale this up and we can scale
this down.
And this is essentially the plated skit.
We can scale this up a little bit more.
Okay. I'm going to select this edge
right here. E and Z. I'm going to bring
this up. And I want to relax this edges
or these vertices a little bit more. I'm
going to right click. I'm going to go to
loop tools. And then I'm going to relax
those edges. Okay. We can do that again.
I'm just going to relax this a little
bit more. And then E and Z. I'm going to
extrude from this. And I'm going to
right click loop. tools. I'm just going
to make this one circular.
Just like that. Looks good. And now we
have the basic shape of the skit. Okay.
You can select this one S to scale this
up a little bit more. Okay. And right
now you might notice that the shading is
a little bit weird. If it looks like
this for you, you can just press all and
then press shift N to recalculate your
normals. Okay. So that the shading
doesn't look all bad. And now we have a
sket just like this. If we add a
subdivision surface modifier to this,
I'm going to increase my levels of to
one to two. Okay. So something like this
looks good for the sket. You can add in
one more look right there. And this is
basically the sket. Let's go ahead.
Let's bring back our objects. And I'm
going to move this down here
in edit mode. I'm just going to scale
this up. Something like this. Just scale
this up to fit the shape of the
character.
And then from the side, S and Y, we can
bring this in.
And also the same thing right here.
S and Y, we can bring this in.
Something more like this. Okay. I can
also just move this one up. I can select
this. Move these ones up. Select this
one. Move this one up to make it a
little bit shorter.
All right. Something like that. And now
we can use the sculpt mode to help us
refine the shapes of this a little bit
more. I'm going to make use of XM3.
Although this is not symmetrical, I'm
still going to make use of XM3 to help
us sculpt out the shape. So, I'm just
going to pull it out.
I'll just make sure that this is
overlapping the shirts
to something like this.
Okay, I'm going to move this out.
And I'm just going to make sure that the
skirt is overlapping the shirt. We can
also still go into the shirt object and
then just push that in a little bit
closer to the body. Something like that.
I'm going to push right here in. And I'm
just going to, now that I'm here, I'm
just going to grab that out. Then I'll
go back to the SK object. And then we
can just keep on refining these shapes
until we have something that looks good.
I'm going to make sure that this also
not intersecting with the body of our
character. I'm going to bring this out.
I'm also going to bring right here out.
Okay.
And for this case right here, I'm going
to make this a little bit more cold.
Something like this. So, I'm just going
to use the dry brush. I'm going to pull
this part down. I'll pull this part
down. I can pull right here up.
Something more like that. Looks much
nicer. I'm just going to copy the color
from here. Ctrl C. And then I'm going to
paste this right here. And then I'm
going to also add in a solidifier
modifier.
And I'm going to increase the thickness
of the solidifier modifier. Something
like this. And we can shade this one
smooth. Okay. I can add in one look
right here so that the shading here
doesn't look weird. And I'm just going
to move this one up and bring this one
up. So something like this. This is just
how you make a plated skit. Something
like that.
And we can also just bring this one down
right here for the back of the skit. And
with this, you can definitely go ahead
and make variations of plated skits like
this and like the ones I have on the
concept. This is not going to be the
final one. I'm going to work on this a
little bit more after now and I'll make
the final skits just something like
this. But that is the overall idea that
you're going to use to sculpt out the
pleated skit. Okay, I'm just going to
bring this in something like this. And
that is going to be it for the skit. You
can definitely go ahead and add a
multi-res and sculpt over this if you
need more details, but for now, I'm just
going to leave it at this. This is going
to be completely fine for what I'm going
to need. All right, this is going to
look good. Let's go ahead and I'm going
to sculpting in the boots for this
character. And this is going to be the
method that you're going to use to
sculpt shoes or boots is all going to be
the same. But just before I get started,
the boots
right here. If I look at the boots, I
can see that this is a high heel. So,
I'm going to need to adjust the shape of
the foot to make it fit the shape of the
high heel. If your character doesn't
have a high heel shoe, you can leave the
feet as it is. But now that I know that
the character has a high heel, I'm just
going to go into edit mode. Okay, I'm
going to select some of these vertices.
So somewhere around here, I'll make sure
X I'm going to make sure Xray is turned
on here. I'm going to select these ones.
I can deselect these ones. And then we
can just start to rotate this down a
little bit more. So I'm just pushing
this to adjust it the shape of the feet
that we want. And then we can also use
control and hold down right click to
select. So that's just going to bring up
the lasso selection. Something like
this. Then I can also rotate this and
place this right here. Okay. And I'm
just going to make sure that the shape
of the feet still looks good. Okay. All
right. Here we're going to use sculpting
to fix this up. So, don't worry about
this more. Okay. I'm going to go into
sculpt mode. I'm going to turn off
wireframes.
And now we need to fix the shape of the
feet. I'm going to bring these ones
down.
Okay. And we're going to need to remesh
this if you want to sculpt it a little
bit easier. For now, that's fine. Just
adjusting the overall shape of the feet.
Something like this is going to look
good. Okay. And then just before I remix
this, I'm going to add in some volume
right here.
And we can smooth this out.
So it would have been much easier to
sculpt out the legs in this shape. But
we're just going to show you how to
sculpt the leg in both the normal shape
and boots in this type of heel pose. So
for your next character, you can sculpt
the character or you can scul the feet
with the heel pose. Something more like
this. And I'm just going to smooth over
this.
Going to use the grab brush. I need to
push this up a little bit more.
All right. Something like that. I'm just
going to bring this down. And I'm going
to smooth all of these out like so.
I'm also going to smooth out right here.
And I'm going to make sure that this
transition looks nice.
I'm going to see what that looks like
from right here. Okay, I think that
looks good.
So, push this back a little bit more.
Okay, so the heels are going to be right
here. So, I'm just pushing that back a
little bit more. Then I can also use the
cl brush and just add in some volume
right here
right here. And then I can just smooth
out these areas right here. Just so I
can have a nice clean shape. Just
holding down shift and I'm smoothing out
the area. And it's not very easy to
smooth right now because we have lots of
geometry. So just keep that in mind.
It's not going to be really easy to
smooth it out. But we're just going to
try our best to smooth everything out.
Just going to hold down shift, smooth
everything out. Still making sure to
maintain the forms of the feets.
I'm going to pl out this area, this
under part a little bit more. I'm just
going to plane right here out. And then
I'm going to use the grab brush to just
pull this in.
And then I'm going to smooth all of this
out.
Okay.
I'm going to use the crease polish brush
to just mark out. right here.
And I'm going to smooth all of this out.
I'll add in some more geometry right
here. And then I'm going to smooth all
of this out.
All right. From the bottom view, I'm
going to make sure that this is also
still looking nice. Just going to round
this out a little bit more.
I'm going to add in some more geometry
right here. And then I'm going to smooth
all of these out.
I'm going to adjust the shapes right
here. I'll bring this up a little bit
more.
Now I'm just adjusting and fixing the
shapes of the foots. Now I put it in
this kind of heel position. Just
something like that. It's going to look
good. I'm going to bring these ones
back. And then I'm going to smooth over
this area.
And I'm just going to bring this back.
And I'm just rounding out this shape of
the feet.
Okay. And to fix right here, I'm just
going to reme mesh this one more time.
So the mesh resolution
somewhere around 0
73 for me is working just fine. So I'm
going to remesh that. Okay. And we don't
want areas like this. So I'm going to
ctrl Z and I can actually just use the
inflate brush. While holding down
control, I can deflate the toes so that
these are not too close to each other.
So while holding down control, we can
just deflate the toes so that we
actually have some space in between the
toes. And then I'm going to remsh that
once again. All right. and we don't have
any of those issues at the toes. I'm
just going to use the clips brush adding
volume right here
so that the transition is nice and
smooth. I'm just going to add in some
more volume right here. Adding some more
volume right here.
And then I'm just going to smooth all of
this out.
Okay, hold down shift and I'm just
smoothing all of this out. Okay, that is
starting to look really really nice.
Going with hold down shift and smooth
all of these out. And I'm going to add
in some more geometry right here. Just
so that we can really really smooth out
the transitions.
Something more like this.
And with the crease polish, I'm just
going to mark out the separation. Still
going up this way.
And I'm going to hold down shift and I'm
going to smooth all of that out.
All right, this is looking good for the
shape of the feet. You can definitely
keep on refining the shape of the feet,
but for now, this looks good for me.
Okay, now we can actually get started
with the shoes. For the shoes, I'm going
to use a cube. So, I'm going to add in a
cube right there. I wait to edit mode.
I'm just going to place it right there.
And for any shoe shape, this is just a
general guideline for modeling a shoe.
I'm going to scale this to just fit the
shape of the leg a little bit more.
And then I'm going to extrude this down
right here. And then I'm going to
extrude this. going to select this face
and extrude it down right here. Okay.
I'm just going to make sure I don't have
any faces overlapping.
Okay. And from still from the side, I
can select these ones. E to extrude it
down. Something like this. And I can
just place this following the shape of a
pit. And then I can also extrude this
out.
Something like this.
All right. And I'm just going to follow
the shape on my reference. So right here
is going to be flat. So we can S z and
zero to scale this on the Z ais by zero.
Also the same thing here.
All right. This is going to look good.
I'm going to bring this one down. Okay.
And you notice that the shoe is in the
center. That's fine for now. I'm going
to add in a loop cut at the middle. And
then you can use the auto mirror add-on
right here to mirror this over to the
other side.
All right, that looks good. And I'm just
going to in object mode, I'm going to
move this right here.
I'm going to add in a loop cut right
there. I'm going to add in some loop cut
right there. I'm going to add in one
more right here. I'm going to add in few
loop cuts right there. All right, I'm
going to select this GG to slide them
in. Also going to select this one. Git
to slide this one in. And also this way.
I can select this or and right here,
this is my main reference. I'm just
going to round out this area a little
bit more. So, I'm just moving this in.
Something like that. Don't worry about
it clipping through the feet for now.
You don't need to really worry about
that for now. I'm going to go into
sculpt mode and I'm going to make use of
the sculpt brushes. We can add in some
more resolution right here so that we
can make use of the smooth brushes. I'm
going to go into sculpt mode. Just going
to make use of the smooth brush. Just
going to smooth here out.
And can delete these faces at the top.
We don't actually need them. So, we just
delete those faces right there. I'm
going to select this one. All right.
Click
and loop tools. I'm going to choose
relax right there.
All right, that looks good. I'll go back
into sculpt mode. And I'm just still
making use of the skull brushes to help
me get the shapes of the boots of the
shoes.
I'm just using the grab brush to push
this into place. So something like this
is looking good. I'm going to add in one
loop cut right there. I'm going to scale
this one out on the X-axis. And I'll
actually just select these faces at the
bottom here.
I'm going to scale those ones in on the
X- axis and I'll also scale this one in
on the Y axis. Something like that. I'm
going to isolate this shoe for now so I
can see it a little bit clearly. And
then I'm going to smooth out these areas
right here. So I'm just taking a look at
my reference and then I'm following
exactly the shapes that I see on my
reference. Might need to bring this down
a little bit more.
Something like that. And then I can
bring this in.
And I can also bring this out.
All right, that looks good. I'm going to
use the grab brush to push this in a
little bit more. Yeah, something like
this. And I'm going to use the grab
brush. Push right here in. Can also just
smooth out this area at the back right
here.
Okay. And I'm going to make sure I like
the shape of the boots before moving
forward. So, I'm just going to adjust
and keep on adjusting this. So, I like
the shape I have right here. I'm going
to also change the color just so I can
see this a little bit clearly. I'm just
going to choose a dark color right here.
Something like this is going to look
good. Right now we are using symmetry to
scul the boots. So let's go ahead and
let's apply the mirror modifier. I'm
going to add in another mirror modifier.
And I'm just going to select the mirror
object as a head so that we can mirror
this over to the other side. And now
we're going to stop relying on the X
symmetry. But before we do that, I'm
just going to go into edit mode. I'm
going to select these ones.
Okay. I'm just going to select these
ones for now. So I can scale this S Z
and zero to scale that on the Z axis by
zero. Then I'm going to select this E.
I'm going to extrude this out. Something
like that. S and Y. I'm going to scale
this down. I can actually just select
this one. E to extrude this down. So
this is going to be the heel. I'm going
to scale this down on the Y axis. And
then I'm going to bring this back right
here. Can also just select these ones S
and Z zero to make sure that they are on
the same plane. So somewhere about here
is going to be fine. I can select these
ones right here and I can actually just
move them up.
Something like this. You can actually
move this right up. I'm going to smooth
out the geometry right here. GG to slide
this in.
And I'm also going to actually select
both on both sides. S and X scale this
in. Then GY to move that in. Okay, that
looks good. I'm also going to round out
right here. S and X and G to move this
in. Also the same right here. Gy to move
this in.
All right. Now, something like this is
going to work. I'm just going to adjust
the shape of the heel from the back. S
and X. I'm going to scale this in. Okay.
All right. And something like this is
looking really good. So right now what
I'm just doing, I'm still taking a look
at my reference and I'm just adjusting
the proportions I see from my reference.
Something like this.
Okay. And now let's stop a line on
symmetry. I'm going to go into sculpt
mode. And I'm just going to start
sculpting this without symmetry turned
on. I'm just going to pull this forward
a little bit more. And for issues, you
want to bring this right somewhere like
this.
And I'm also just going to bring this
out. Just push this out. Something more
like this.
And just so that the feet is not getting
in the way. We can go into objects mode.
And then we can hide this. Something
like this. I'm going to push this in
like so. And I'm also going to push this
in. All right. Something like this is
looking really, really nice.
I like how this is looking right now.
Okay, I'm going to adjust the shape of
the boots right here. So, I'm just going
to follow the reference. I'm going to
bring this out. And I can also just
inflate this areas right here cuz it
looks like it's a log bigger something
like this. You can use the grab brush to
just keep on pulling this pushing this
one into shape.
Okay, I'm going to pull this out to this
side. Something like this. So, it has a
little bit of shape. I'm going to push
this side out. Something more like this.
I can just bring this in. Now, we can
start getting the shape of the boots in
much nicer shape for the boots. Once
again, at this point, make sure you're
using reference
when you're sculpting. Okay, I'm going
to adjust this also from the back view.
And I'm also going to adjust this from
the side right here to make sure that
everything is looking just right. Okay.
I'm going to adjust the patterns right
here. So, this place right here. I'm
just going to scale this on the X-axis.
Yeah, something more like this.
All right. And we can also use the grab
brush to just keep on adjusting the
shapes right here.
All right. And something like this is
already starting to look good. You can
definitely keep on tweaking the shape
and the proportions of the boots. But
for now, in order not to make this too
long, this chapter too long. I'm going
to call it done for right here. Okay.
I'm going to go into object mode. I'm
going to shade this smooth. So, I'm
going to right click and shade that
smooth. And I'm going to add a solidify
modifier to this. And I'm just going to
increase the thickness that we have
right here. Something like this is going
to be fine. From the side, I'm still
going to make sure that these ones are
still on the same axis. So, Sz and Zero
to scale that down.
Something like that.
Okay. And just like we do we've been
doing for all the other clips, we going
to go ahead and add the multi-resolution
modifier. To go ahead and add in the
multi-res, we can just come in here and
add in the multi resolution modifier. on
this one. We don't need to apply the
mirror modifier on this one because it's
actually mirroring it over to the other
side. So, we don't need to apply it in
this case. So, I'm just going to
subdivide on this a little bit more.
Now, we have something that looks like
this. And from this point on, it's going
to be up to you to just go into sculpt
mode. And then, you're going to start to
define the shapes that you have right
here. So, something I like to do on the
bottom right here, can just define the
separation between the sole of the feet
and the rest of the shoe. So, I'm just
going to use the draw shaft brush. And
then you can just start to draw this
out.
Okay, we're going to do that really
carefully. And I'm just going to
subdivide this one more time so I can
have some more geometry to work with.
Okay, something like this.
I'm just going to go from right here.
I'm going to go all the way to the back.
Something like that. And just keep on
going
right there.
Add. I'm going to keep on going, keep on
going
till I get to where we started from.
And something
like this.
Okay. To avoid making crooked lines like
this, an option you could actually turn
on is under stroke. You could actually
go ahead and stabilize your stroke so
that Blender helps you just stabilize
your strokes a little bit more instead
of getting jagged edges like this. But
for now, this is fine. I'm just going to
pinch this.
I'm going to go ahead and just pinch in
those areas.
This using the pinch brush to go over it
like so.
Okay. Still using the paintbrush to just
pinch over all of these.
All right. And for the sole of the feet
right here, I'm going to use the line
project brush. And then I can just slice
this to make sure that that is looking
sharp. Just like so. I can also use the
crease polish brush to just mark out
this area right here. Make sure I'm on
the crease polish brush and I'll just
mark out this area right here.
All right, that looks good. And then you
can definitely still come ahead and add
in folds on the boots. So, I know not
everyone is going to be sculpting boots.
So, at this point, you can either keep
on sculpting or you can use this as a
base mesh to start to build up the shoe
you're going for. So, I rather prefer
sculpting. So, I'm just going to
continue using sculpting. But if you
know how to use basic box modeling to
model out the shoe, definitely go ahead
and do that at this point. So, I'm just
going to go ahead start adding in some
folds right here on the boots. Just
something like this.
Okay. I'm going to add the same thing
right there.
add in some more folds right there.
All right, I'm also going to do the same
at the top here. I'm going to add in
some diamonds right here.
I'm just taking a look at my reference
and I'm going ahead and adding in some
of these folds.
Okay, I'm going to smooth over all of
this. And now I can define some of the
shapes on this fold, which is the crease
polish brush to mark this out right
here. And also hold down control. I'm
going to mark it out right here. Yeah,
something like that. And we can define
the shapes on the shoes a lot more.
Going to hold on control to mark out the
folds right there on the shoes.
And I'm just going to do that everywhere
where I originally marked out the folds.
Okay.
Something like this. It's looking good.
And let me just bring that back. Okay,
something like this is looking good. I
can definitely keep on going and adding
more details on the boots. I'm
definitely going to add some more
details to the boots when I'm sculpting
my own. But that's the general idea of
how you sculpt shoes and how you sculpt
boots. All right, let's go ahead and
wrap this chapter up by sculpting the
hair. And sculpting the hair is going to
be very simple to do. Now that we have
the head in place, we can select the
head. We can go into sculpt mode and we
can make a selection of where the hair
is going to come out from. I'm going to
go from the side view. And then right
here, I'm going to select the lasso max
brush. If you have not added the lasso
max brush to your quick, you can right
click and it should say add to fite. I'm
just going to escape and then I'm going
to select that for my quick favorites
right here. And then I'm just going to
make a selection of the clothes of the
hair. Something like this. Just making
out that selection. Something like this.
Okay. Going to select the areas that are
not necessary.
All right. Something like this is going
to look good for my own character. So, I
just making a base for the hair. So,
something like this is going to work
just fine. We're going to adjust this a
lot more. I'm going to go up to mask and
then I'm going to mask extract. I'm
going to leave the default options and
choose extract. So, what that's going to
do is going to extract that selection
into a separate mesh. Okay, that's good.
I'm going to change the offset to zero.
And then I'm going to bring out the
thickness. I'm going to increase the
thickness. Something like this. And at
this stage, it's going to be really
important to identify the shapes on your
sculpt. So, the shapes on my own concept
here. I can see we have this big volume
right here. Then I have this other
volume one on the side and also another
one on the side. And then we have this
big volume at the back. So that's just
essentially how I'm going to break it
down. If you had a different hairstyle,
something like this. You can break it
down into two different parts. So one
for the left side, one for the right
side. So just something like this. And
then you can also use another one for
the back if you understand from my
illustration. Okay. So just break the
hair into really simple parts so that
you be able to easily sculpt it inside
of Blender. All right. Let's keep on
going. I'm going to select this. I'm
going to go into sculpt smooth. And then
I'm just going to the sides here. Just
going to bring this in. Something like
that. Also going to bring this in. And
then I'm just going to smooth out the
edges right here. Just holding down
shift and smoothing out the edges. So
right now this is still like one plane.
So we are not really sculpting on this
volume that you see here. We are still
sculpting on this plane that we
extracted out. Okay. Now to actually
make this a volume, we can go ahead and
apply the solidify modifier that I added
in for us. Okay. And what I'm going to
do here, I'm going to use the script
brush and I'm just going to plane out
the side or this area right here. And
just before I do that, you should
actually remesh this. So I'm going to
bring up the resolution somewhere around
0.01
5 works just fine for me. Ctrl R to mesh
that.
And then with the script brush, we're
just going to clean out this area right
here for the hair. And then I'm just
going to keep on pling this out. I'll go
all the way to the back right here
for our character. And then I'm going to
use the grab brush. I'm going to bring
this down.
I'm also going to bring this area down.
Something like this. And I can also just
adjust the color right here of the hair.
Something like this. Looks good.
And then I'm going to smooth this out so
that everything is starting to look
nice. Okay. And now that we have this,
let me just identify the shapes on my
head once again. Right here, I can see
that the hair is flowing and it's come
to stop at a point right here. So all
the hair is just flowing and it's
bunching up at a certain point right
there. So that's exactly what I'm going
to do on my own hair sculpt right here.
The brush I like to use to indicate the
direction of the hair is the clay shoes
brush to see for the clay shoes brush.
And then I can just start to indicate
the direction of the hair. Something
like this. I'm just going to take this
all the way to the back.
Something like this. We can start
indicating that direction. Everything is
going to meet about somewhere around
here. So, I'm just going to pull
everything to that area right there. You
can go over some of these areas more
than once.
And also going to do the same right
here.
Okay. I'll take a look at this what this
is looking like from the side. And I'm
just going to add in the direction on
the hair right here. Also, right here, I
can see that I need to add some volume
right there. I'm just going to go ahead
and add in some volume right there.
Yeah, something more like that. So that
it looks like the hair is hanging.
Something like that. And also just keep
in mind that this hair we are sculpting
is just a placeholder hair until we
actually get to the hair grooming stage.
So this hair, the eyebrows, the
eyelashes. We're going to replace this
with actual hair geometry. So this is
just for practice and also just to
visualize what the hair is going to look
like. Also sculpting this hair is going
to give us a better understanding of
what the hair is going to look like for
the final. Okay, so something like this.
I can use the grab brush. I can just
pull out this area right here.
Okay. And then I can just bring this
down into the head. Can use the clip
brush to add in some volume at the front
right here.
So something like this.
All right, this is looking good so far
for this initial volume around the head.
Okay, to add this other side, something
like this. So, this hanging part, I can
actually go ahead and I'm going to add
in a cube or you can add in a plane,
whichever is going to work. I'm going to
go into edit mode. I'm going to select
all of these and I'm going to mesh them
at center. So, we just need one of these
vertex. Actually, another easier way for
us to do that would just be to go to
shift a mesh and with the extra mesh
add-on enabled, you're going to see this
option for single ve single vet. So, you
can add a single vet right there. I'm
going to go into edit mode. Okay. Ah, I
can just extrude this. I'm just going to
extrude this once on the X-axis.
Something like this. And then I'll go
ahead and add a skin modifier. I'm also
going to add a subdivision surface
modifier. I'm going to increase my
viewport levels to two.
Something like that. And now we can just
start to use this to place the hair at
the middle right there. I'm going to
place this right here. If you want to
reduce or increase the thickness, you
can select this one and press Ctrl A.
And it's going to increase or reduce the
thickness. Ctrl A. And then just move
your mouse. And that's going to reduce
or increase the thickness. I'm just
going to bring this down
like so. And I'm just making that shape
that I can see on my own reference.
Something like this. I'm going to select
this one. Ctrl A to make this a little
bit slimmer, little bit thinner.
Ctrl A. And I'm just going to move some
of this back. Just placing this in the
right spots. Then select this and move
them back. Something like that. Also the
same thing right here.
And I can actually select all of these
with a right click. And I can just see
smooth vertices. So this one right here
is going to smooth out the vertices.
Before I do that, I'm going to deselect
this one. Right click and I'm just going
to smooth out the vertices right there.
All right. Something like this is
looking really nice. I'm just going to
adjust the shape of this.
All right. I like how this is looking
right now.
Okay. I'm going to go ahead and I'm
going to mirror this over to the other
side since we have a similar shape to
the other side. So, I'm just going to
add in a mirror modifier.
Mirror modifier. This one right here.
And then we can change the color.
Actually, just going to copy the color
from right here. I'm just going to copy
the color. So you can hover over this
and press Ctrl C to copy the color. And
then Ctrl + V, you can paste in the
color. And you can come into edit mode.
You can select this. You can turn on
proportional editing. And then you can
just move those into place. Something
more like that.
All right, that looks nice. That is
looking nice. You can definitely go
ahead and refine this a lot more. Okay.
So, this is looking nice right now. So,
add in the
back part of the hair. We can select
this. I can just duplicate this. Shift
D. Something like this. I'm going to
shift S. I'm going to move this
selection to cursor right here. So, our
cursor is in the middle of the world
origin. I'm going to remove. Actually,
I'm going to P separate this by
selection. And I'm going to make sure
that that's selected. I'm going to
remove the mirror modifier. And I'm just
going to go from this side. I'm going to
bring this right here. And I'm just
going to extrude this at the back.
Something like this. You can make this
any shape like so. So, I'm just going to
put something like this for now. And
then I'm going to actually go in and
sculpt this a little bit properly. And
right now, you see that the skin
modifier is not working. And if you
redirect here, it says no valid root
vertx. So what you just need to do is
select any of these vertex and then just
mark this as root. And then you should
see that working just fine. So I'm just
going to place this something like this.
I'm going to extrude this a little bit
more.
Okay. I'm just going to place it
somewhere around there. You can also
press Ctrl AR and X to scale out on the
X ais only. And then I can just bring
this up. So something like this is going
to look fine for me. Ctrl A. I'm going
to scale this one in a little bit more.
I'm going to select this one. Scale it
in.
Okay. And I'm just going to move this
up. Something like that. I'm going to
Ctrl A and X to move this in. I just
have a shape that looks like this. I can
increase my subdivision surface so I
have some more geometry to work with
when I go into sculpt mode. And I'm just
going to apply all these modifiers. An
easy way to do that. Ctrl A. We can just
say visual geometry to mesh. And now if
we go into sculpt mode, we can remsh
this.
Ctrl R to remesh that. I'm going to
smooth out all of this. And now we can
start to add some direction. I'm just
going to use the client brush to add in
some direction on this hair. I can
actually use the X symmetry to help us
right there. So I'm just going to add in
some direction on the hair. Just like
this. So just something to indicate the
direction on the hair. I'm just using
the clear brush and I'm adding in some
direction on this.
Okay, just adding in the direction on
the hair.
All right. Also, at this point, make
sure you're still looking at reference
to make sure you have something that
looks good. Okay, which is the grab
brush. Just push this in.
Something like that is going to be good
enough for me right now. I like the way
that's looking. I'm definitely still
going to go ahead and sculpt this a lot
more. But for right now, I like what I
have right here. Okay. And at this
stage, you might need to let's take a
look at your own concept. So, right here
on my own concept, the tiles are going
to be a bit thicker. And also I think I
need to just bring adjust some of the
portions on my own character. Scale up
the head a little bit more. So changes
like this I'm going to make. Right now
I'm going to just inflate the thighs.
Something like this. I'm just going to
inflate this. Okay. Something like that.
I can bring this down and push this part
out. So I'm just taking a look at my own
concept and I'm just making these
changes right here.
Okay. And definitely you can go ahead
keep on making all the changes for your
own characters. So this is essentially
how you sculpt clothing and accessories
for your characters. Any other thing I'm
going to leave it up to you to just go
ahead and try it out on your own. All
right, let's summarize this video. Now
you've seen how we sculpted clothes and
accessories. To summarize, clothes
follows the form of the body. Folds come
from two forces which are tension and
compression. And you want to focus on
the forces and not memorization. That
way you'll be able to sculpt much
clearer folds for your character. And
don't forget if you need any extra help
with anything we've discussed so far in
this master class. Go ahead and join
this stylish character academy where I'm
going to be holding your hand every step
of the process. Okay? And if you're
loving the master class, if you've been
able to get to this stage of the master
class, most people are not going to get
here. If you're loving it and you've
been able to make something, go ahead
and leave a review of this masterass on
Trust Pilot. The link is going to be
below this video. Right now, if you're
at this point, you've come really far.
The next chapter, we're going to be
going to Rtopology. So, we're going to
finish everything that has to do with
sculpting right now, and we're going to
be moving on to topology. 50% of the
people that started watching this master
class have not gotten here. So, if
you're hearing me right now, just like
clap for yourself. You've ended it. So,
in the next chapter, we are going to be
taking a look at a topology and I'll
show you how really easy it is to do a
topology for your character. All right,
I'll catch you guys in the next one.
Welcome to chapter 6. In this chapter,
we are going to be taking a look at the
topology and we are also going to be
retopizing
the face of our character and our
agenda. We are going to take a look at
what topology is. We are going to take a
look at some topology terminology. So
that's some of different terms used when
doing topology. And then we're going to
take a look at face topology for
animation. So that's the type of
topology required on the face for
animation and deformation. And then we
actually dive into Blender and we are
going toize the face and the head for
our own character. So as usual, share
this master class with someone. Let's
help more artist create work that they
are proud of. And a little bit of
warning for you right now. This is the
most important video in the entire
master class. So, make sure you watch
the entire video. Don't skip and don't
jump around. All right, let's get
started. What is the topology? Before we
define topology, first off, we need to
understand what topology is. And a
simple definition that I'm going to give
to you. Topology is the arrangement of
vertices, edges, and faces across the
surface of a 3D object. And I'm going to
show you an example of that in a moment,
but just keep that in mind. Topology is
the arrangement of vertices, edges, and
faces across the surface of a 3D object.
In simple terms, topology describes how
the geometry of a model is structured.
All right. And now that we know what
topology is, the topology just simply
means to redo the topology of your 3D
model. Hence why it is called
retopology. So it means to redo the
topology of your 3D model. So after
sculpting our model contains very dense
and messy geometry. It's not ideal for
animation or production. So we need to
review the topology in a cleaner and a
more structured way. However, when we
areizing, we are usually following
specific criteria depending on the final
use case of the model. In this master
class, we are going to focus on
topologizing for animation and offline
rendering. Okay. So I'm just going to go
into Blender now and I'm going to show
you an example here. So I'm just going
to turn on the wireframes for this. And
if you take a closer look here, you can
see the different faces, the different
edges and the different vertices that
make up this scope. So this is an
example of topology. You can see the
arrangement of vertices faces on this
scope. So that is an example of
topology. If I move right here, you can
see an example of a 3D model that has
been retopized. So you can see that we
are following some certain criterias
when placing down these edges and faces
and vertes. So that is what we call
topology. So this is a good example of
topology. In this master class we're
going to be focus focusing on topology
for animation and offline. There are
different topology criterias. So the
criteria for topology can change on
whether your character is being used for
realtime rendering or games or if it's
being used for offline rendering and
animation. In this class, we are going
to mainly focus on topology for
animation characters. Although many of
the principles can still apply to game
characters. So I'm just going to walk
you through the different criteria. So
for real time and game topology, the
model needs to runs smoothly inside of a
game engine. And because of this, the
topology count should be kept low. Okay.
The character must be quick for the
computer to process.
And important areas may receive more
geometry. So for example, areas like the
fist may receive more geometry than
let's say a random prop on the back of
the character. So some important areas
are going to receive more geometry or
less important areas may use lower
resolution or lower geometry because
they are not as important. So those are
these are some of the criterias for real
time and game topology. These are not
all the criterias but these are some of
them. So these criterias are going to
allow character to move and respond in
real time during game play. While for
animation and offline rendering
topology, the requirements are slightly
different. In this case, the model is
often going to be subdivided during
rendering. So for animation characters,
there's probably going to be a
subdivision surface modifier on it. So
it's going to be subdivided when we are
rendering. So a higher poly count in
this case is acceptable. The topology is
usually built using mostly quad
geometry. If you don't know what quads
are, I'm going to explain that in a bit.
So, this is going to allow the character
to subdivide smoothly and to deform
better during animation. All right. Why
do we do topology?
The main goal of topology is to make our
character animation ready. And we do
this by reducing the extremely high poly
count that we had from sculpting. Just
like I showed you in the example
earlier. So you can see from our sculpt
right here. So this is the sculpt. You
can see how many that we have here. We
have over 2 million triangles on this
sculpt. So we want to reduce that high
polygon count. And we also want to
create topology that's going to support
the deformationations just like this. So
that when we start to deform this
character, it moves a little bit better.
And we also want to start to consider
how the character will deform during
animation. And also doing the topology
is going to help make other parts of the
process much smoother. So other areas,
other parts of the graphation pipeline
like UV unwrapping, texturing is going
to be much smoother because now we have
lesser geometry that we can actually
work with and it's also going to improve
performance when working in your
character. So that's the whole reason
why we do ethtopology. Now let's take a
look at some topology terminologies.
When discussing topology the terms that
we use generally fall into two main
categories. So we have the core topology
types which are th or you can call them
triangles. We have what we call quals
and then we have what we call engones.
I'm going to explain what this mean in a
bit. And then for the topology,
structure and flow we have edge flow,
edge loops and pools. These are some of
the common terminologies that you hear.
There are other ones but these are the
main one that we are going to look at.
So the first group describes the types
of faces while the second group
describes how topology flows across the
model. Although we work with quads and
engon while modeling, the computer is
ultimately going to process everything
as triangles. So even if a model
contains quads or engones, the computer
will internally convert them into
triangles when rendering. However, we
preferably like to work with quads
because they provide better structure
and much control. And let me just hop
into Blender and explain what I mean
right here. So we have right here, if I
just go into edit mode on this, we have
this mesh. It has three edges. So this
right here is a triangle. Okay, this one
right here, it has four edges. That is a
quad. And this one right here, it has
nine edges. That makes it a an engon. So
an engon is any face that has five or
more edges. So if I just come in here
and remove some of those and now we have
six. This is still an engon. If I had
removed only one, this is still an
engon. It has more than five edges. So
that is still an engon. All right. Now
we know what triads and engon are. Okay?
And although we work with quads and
engones, the computer is ultimately
ultimately going to process everything
as triangles. Let me just show you an
example of that here. If I select these
two edges and I move them up, you're
going to see Blender is creating an
invisible triangle here. So you can see
this triangular shape right here. So
Blender or any 3D software actually is
going to automatically process
everything as triangles. I can also show
you that same thing going on right here.
So instead of making like a curve, you
can see that Blender is converting that
into a triangle. I can also show you
that right here. If I just select this
and move this up, you can see how
Blender has converted this into a
triangle. Although it might not be
visible right here, we can see how
Blender is converting that into a
triangle. So the computer is going to
ultimately process everything as
triangles. But the reason we preferably
like to work with quads is because they
provide better structure and better
control. So I'm just going to show you
an example here. So I'm just going to
tell this edge and I'm just going to
extrude this out something like this.
Okay. And now with this code geometry we
can easily come in here and add in loop
cuts just like this. Okay. We can add it
both vertically and horizontally. But
right here let's say we had an end gun
right here. So this face has eight edges
that makes it an engon. If you try to
add in a loop cut, you can see the way
that stops the flow of the loop cut. So
you can't you can't go past that area
because of this angle. Also the same
thing with a triangle. If I just created
a triangle right here, I can't still
pass blue cuts through those meshes. So
that is why we preferably want to use
quads when we are modeling animation
topology so that it gives us better
control and better structure. All right.
We prefer to use quads because quads are
the most commonly used types face type
in character modeling. They are going to
allow for clean edge loops. It's going
to support predictable subdivision and
it's also going to create better edge
flow. and it's also going to deform more
naturally during animation. So this is
why most animation ready topology is
built firmly using quad geometry. All
right. Now let's define some of the
other technologies that we looked at
earlier. Edge flow. Edge flow describes
the direction and the path that edges
follow across the surface of a model.
Good edge flow is going to help surfaces
divide cleanly. is also going to help
the character deform naturally during
animation and it's going to help us
maintain the structure of the model.
Edge flow should usually follow the
natural forms of the character. So let
me just show you an example of edge flow
right here. I just switch back to this.
Okay,
you can see a different edge flow right
here. So if I just select this, you can
see how these loops are going across the
surface of our model. So that's an
example of edge flow. It describes the
direction and the path that edges follow
across the surface of a model. Now let's
take a look at edge loops. Edge loops
are continuous chains of connected edges
that run across a model. Edge loops are
going to help us build structure in the
topology. It's going to help us control
deformations. It's going to maintain and
organize symmetry. And edge loops are
also one of the ways that we create and
control edge loop. Let me just hop back
into Blender. So right here, this is an
edge loop. This is an edge loop. This is
an edge loop. This is an edge loop. So
an edge loop is just a chain of
connected geometry. And edge loops as
you can see is going to help us create
edge flow right here. Okay. What's the
difference between edge flow and edge
loops? Although they are related, edge
flow and edge loops are actually not the
same thing. Edge loops are a chain of
connected edges. While edge flow is the
overall direction that those loops
follow across the surface. In other
words, edge loops are going to help you
create edge flow. Okay, let's take a
look at the lastology terminology that
we looked at which is poles. So a pole
is a vertex where more or fewer than
four edges meet. So is either more or is
fewer than four edges. So some examples
three edges meeting at one vertex is a
three pole.
Five edges meeting at one vertex is a
five pole. We have six edges meeting at
one vertex is the six pole. You can keep
on going to 7 to 8 to 9. But for
animation topology, we want to really
keep it to three and to five pole. Once
you start going with six pole, seven
pole, eight pole is going to cause a lot
of pinching and stretching on the
topology and we don't want that
especially for animation topology. So a
vertex with exactly four edges is going
to be considered as a regular vertex.
And the use case of pull is to redirect
edge loops and to also control topology
flow. So I'm just also going to show you
an example of that right here. So let me
just bring this back up. So let's say
for example right here we have one you
have one 2 3 four these four faces going
down. Let's say we just wanted to
control the edge loop here. We want to
wanted to control the topology flow. So
from four we wanted to reduce this to
two. So, a simple way to do that, we can
just select this.
I'm going to collapse it on this one in
the middle. I'm also going to select
this, collapse it on this one in the
middle. I'm going to select all with A.
And then I'm just going to merge
everything by distance so that those
ones are collapsed on each other. And
then I'm also going to get rid of this
triangle right here. Okay. And now
you're going to see we have been able to
reduce the faces from one 2 3 four going
out and now it's just two going out. So
pools are going to help us control the
topology flow on our mesh. So right here
we created a pool right here. So 1 2 3
edges meeting at this vertex. That's a
three pole. And then we have 1 2 3 4
five
edges meeting at this vertex which is a
5. Okay. And also poles are used to
redirect edge loops. So if I try to add
in a loop right here, you're going to
see how that edge loop has been
redirected to towards this area just
like this. Also the same thing right
here. You can see how that edge loop has
been redirected because of this pole
that we added it. So these are some of
the use cases of pose and that's what
pose are mostly going to do. Okay. Now
let's take a look at face topology for
animation. So the type of topology
required on face for proper animation
and deformation.
When creating topology for a character's
face, you must think about how the face
is going to move and is going to deform
during animation. So this means
arranging topology so that it supports
the facial expression and the muscle
movement. To achieve this, we need to
rely on specific edge loops around major
facial features. And these loops include
loops around the eyes, loops around the
nose, loops around the mouth, loops
around the nasal labia, which is from
the nose to the corner of the mouth,
loops around the face contour, which is
from the forehead to the side of the
face down to the chin, and then loops
around the ear. So let's just take a
look at some of these loops. So I'm just
going to bring this up here and I'll
show you the use cases of these loops
with a read model right here. So if I go
into pose mode on this, we have these
loops going around the eye. And if I
just try to close this, you're going to
see the way these loops going around the
eye are supporting the deformation of
the eyelid closing. So that's why we
want to have loops around the eye. So
just like this. so that it's going to
deform the eyelids closing and also the
eyes closing. And then we also want to
have loops around the nose so that we
can move around the nose. Okay, let me
just change this to medium point. Okay,
so we can see the way this is going to
deform the nose accurately and properly
just like what we want. And then we have
loops around the mouth. This one is
actually very important. So if I just
move this back, you're going to be
you're going to see the way the loops
here are supporting the deformation on
the fist right here. So this why we want
to have proper edge flow and proper edge
loops around the mouth. Okay, we also
want to have loop around the nasal liia.
So that is right here. This one going
right here. This is going to help us
with the information like the laugh line
if she had an extreme smile on her face.
The loop going around the nasal labia is
going to help with that. Also want to
have loops around the face contour. So
right here we can just deform that if
needed. And then we also want to have
loops around the ear. So right here we
have these loops going around the ear so
that if we needed to deform the ear,
it's going to be really easy to do that.
So these are the face topology or this
is how we want to structure the face
topology for good animation and
deformation. So at this point we can
dive right into Blender and we're going
to go ahead andize the face and head of
our character. Okay. So this is where I
left off on my own character. So I
worked on the clothes a lot more. I did
some changes on the shoes also on the
skits and on the shirts for my
character. So this is where I ended off.
And just before we get started with
topology, first off, we need to organize
our blenders in. So far, we have not
named anything. Let's just go ahead and
organize some of these. So I'm just
going to select the clothing. I'm just
going to select all the clothing objects
right here and make sure I select
everything.
And I can move these ones into their own
collection. So, I'm just going to select
these
and I'm going to move them into a new
collection. Okay, that's everything. M
to bring up this menu right here. And
then we can choose new collection. And
then under the collection name, we can
just type in clothes.
Okay. Right there. Now, we have this
collection for our clothes. And I'm also
going to do the same thing for the hair.
I'm just going to select the hair
objects M. I'm going to move this to a
new collection called hair.
All right. Now we have collection for
the hair. This collection right here.
I'm just going to rename it to high
poly.
Okay. Just like this. I'm going to move
the crruit into the high poly and also
the hair into the high poly. Okay. And
I'm just going to hide these ones for
now. And just before we do that, before
we start to rename everything, one thing
that we actually want to do before
topology is to set the scale of our
scene. So right now, if I add in a new
cube, this cube, if I come to the end
panel here, this cube is 2 m high and
our character is almost 10 times that.
So because we have not been sculpting
with real world scale, now we want to go
ahead and do that. And to do that, we're
going to use this cube as reference. So
I'm going to place this cube on the grid
floor. So if I just come up here to the
view port overlays and I turn on the X
and Y axis overlays. So you can see
where the red line is. So I'm just going
to go into edit mode on this cube. I'm
going to move this G and Z and move it
one to move it up. Okay. So now we have
that cube right there. With this cube
selected, Ctrl I. And we can select
every other thing. And I'm going to use
the 3D cursor as the pivot point. So you
can come up here and you can change here
to pivot point or you can use the full
stop on your keyboard to bring this up.
So you can just select it from there.
Also just going to turn on screencast
keys here. Okay. And now with the pivot
point set to the 3D cursor, you can just
scale this down. And I'm just going to
move this somewhere around here. So I'm
just going to make sure that the leg is
directly on the floor. Okay. And we can
scale this down. So normal human height
is about 1.6 or 1.7 there about. So I'm
just going to place it right here. So I
know this cube is 2 m. So I'm just going
to place it something like this. Okay.
And I can select the cube. I can delete
this. We don't need that right now. I'm
just going to zoom back into this.
Okay. Now that we have done that, we
need to apply our transforms since we
just scaled this down. So I'm going to
Ctrl A and I'm going to apply all
transforms. You might get an error that
looks like this. Just find the object.
So I know that it's this object. And
because I duplicated them as linked
duplicates, I won't be able to apply
transforms on that. But that's fine for
now. I'm just going to hide those ones.
I'm going to select every other thing,
Ctrl A, and I'm going to apply all
transforms. I might see some things go
crazy like the solidify modifier and the
skin modifier might not be working well.
So, we can just select this one. So,
this is the hair. I'm going to select
this and we select A and Ctrl A to
shrink this back down. I'm going to
change my pivot point back to the
default, which is median point. Then,
Ctrl A. I'm just going to shrink this
one back down somewhere around here.
Okay, something like that looks good.
All right. Also on the eyelashes, we can
see that the solidify modifier because
we applied the scale, we need to change
the values on the solidify modifier. So,
I'm just going to bring that down
somewhere around here should be fine.
Okay. Also, the same thing on the sh
too. I'm going to
change the values, the thickness on the
solidifier modifier.
Okay, something like that. Also, the
same thing right here on the sket. I'm
going to just change the solidifier
modifier.
Okay, I think 0.003
works just fine for me. I'll also do the
same on the shoes. So anyway you had or
you had a solidify modifier just go
ahead and change those values to
something that looks a lot better. Also
on this one I had a skin modifier here.
So Ctrl E. I'm just going to scale this
one down. I also had a solidify modifier
here. I'm just going to bring this down
something
like this.
I change this to 0.03.
And let me see if I remove the negative
here. Looks much better. And also on
this specific object, I was using this
middle as the origin point for the
mirror. So now that I've applied the
mirror modifier, it's no longer working
on this object. So I'm just going to go
into edit mode. I'm going to select
these ones, shift S, and cursor to
selected.
Okay. And I'm going to right click and
set origin to 3D cursor. So this is just
for this specific mesh because I know
that the origin points was being used by
the mirror modifier. Okay.
And that looks like everything. All
right. I can unhide these ones. Okay.
And this collection here, I can just
hide the clothes and hide the hair for
now. You don't really need to see those
for now. Okay. The next thing that we
want to do before we get started with
doubled, we are going to go ahead and
we're going to merge some of these
together. So, I'm going to go ahead. I'm
going to select the head, the ears, the
neck, the body, the legs, and the arms.
So, these ones right here. Let's leave
the hands and the feet. I'm going to
show you another way of adding those in.
So, we want to apply all the modifiers
on this. Ctrl A and visual geometry to
mesh. That's going to apply all the
modifiers. I'm going to make sure that
my head is the active object. So, I'll
select that one last so that we have
this orange outline on it. And then Ctrl
G to join everything together. Okay, now
we have the body as one object. If I go
into sculpt mode, you're going to see
these different colors. So, that's just
Blender creating facets for you. You
don't need to worry about that. I can go
up here to facets and facets from
visible. So we don't really need those.
And now we can remesh everything
together. So we can remesh. So these are
still different objects. You just need
to remesh them together. So we can
choose a remesh solution. I'm just going
to go actually we can come up here and
under the remsh under the vtail size we
can select around the ear. So I'm just
going to select around the ear right
here. I'm going to come up here select
the eyropper and I'm going to select
this. So, I'll make sure it's actually
selecting.
Okay, so this doesn't seem to be working
right now. That's fine. I'm just going
to zoom out. Okay, for some reason that
is not working. I'm going to use the
grid instead. I'm just going to take
this up somewhere around 0.0
76 should be fine. Okay. And then I'm
going to remesh this. Okay. That is not
exactly what we want. We lost all our
details. I'm going to take this way
higher. Okay, somewhere around there.
And we can even take it higher from
here. So, I'm just going to take this
little bit lower. Okay, somewhere around
0.008.
It's going to work just fine for me.
Ctrl R to remesh this. And this might
take a while to remsh.
Okay. Now, if I zoom in here, you can
see that we've been able to remesh
everything together. So, now it's going
to be a matter of just going in and
smoothing out the different transitions
between this and also smoothing out the
overall shapes right here. So, let's
start at the back of the neck. I'm going
to use the clay shoes brush. I'm just
going to add in some more geometry right
here. So, with the clay brush, just
going in. I'm adding in some volumes
right there just to smooth out the
transition. Then I'm going to hold down
shift and smooth all of these out. I'll
also do the same right here.
I'm going to smooth out all of these.
Okay. And now we have that nice
transition between the back of the head
and the neck. I'll also do the same
right here under the jaw. I'm going to
add in
some more volume.
And then I'm going to smooth this out.
Just like that.
Okay, nice. That looks good. Also at the
back of the ear, I'm just going to hold
down shift and smooth out this. I'm also
going to come in here. Just smooth out
right here.
Then you can add in some more clay
strips right here. Just add in some more
volume right here. And we can smooth
this out.
Okay, that looks good. I'm going to
smooth out the pieces across the face
and then I'm just going to come back in
here and add in some of the details. So,
at this point, we really want to make
sure that we define these details a lot
more cuz we're going to start placing
vertics on this topology. So, we really
want to define these details a lot more.
I'm just going to control hold down
control with the crease polish brush and
mark this out.
Also the same thing right here. Hold
down control and I'll mark that out and
make really nice shapes on the face of
the sculpt.
Also very importantly around the side of
the nose. Let's use the crease polish
brush to mark that out.
And also the same thing at the bottom
right here. And also the same thing
right here. and very importantly on the
eyes. So, I'm just going to isolate this
one for now. I just press slash to
isolate that. And with the crease polish
brush, I'm just going to bring this up
like so. And I'm going to also bring
this just sharpen the edges this way.
All right. Something like this. It's
going to look fine for my character. Can
also sharpen these areas on the ear
right here. I'm just going to use the
crease polish brush to sharpen the areas
inside of the ear. Also the same thing
right here. Hold on control mark this
out. I'll do the same right here. So I'm
just using the crease polish brush right
now to define some of the geometry that
we lost since we meshed this object.
Okay, something that looks good for the
face and for the neck. Let's go ahead
and let's smooth out the transitions
right here. Once again, we're just going
to be using the clay brush
right here.
So, I'm just going to add in some
geometry right here. Then, I'm going to
hold down shift and I'm just smoothing
this out.
Holding down shift and then just
smoothing out everything.
And also the same thing right here. I'm
just going to smooth this out. So, the
back we're just filling out the
transitions. So, I'm adding in some
volumes right here. And then I'm
smoothing out the transitions at the
back
just so that everything looks nice and
blended well together. Hold down shift
and I'm going to smooth this out. I'm
also just going to smooth out the whole
mesh so that we don't have any weird
looking pieces. So, I'm just going to
smooth out everything. Just holding down
shift and I'll smoothing out everything.
I'll also do the same at the front. Hold
down shift and I'm smoothing over
everything right here to smooth out the
transitions right here. I'm just going
to use the crease polish brush. I'm just
going to take this from the chest
towards the shoulders. Just like this.
Okay. And then I'm just going to smooth
out right here. Okay. Under the armpit
here, I like to define this crease. So
I'm just going to use the crease polish
brush to define right here. I'm going to
hold down control and also define this
edge. right here. And then I'm just
going to smooth out everything till I
have something that looks nice. We can
further define the creases underneath
the breast. So I'm just going to use the
crease polish brush to define it right
here.
Okay, I'm just defining the edge right
here. Can also do the same thing on the
rib cage right here with the crease
polish brush. Also going to do the same
thing right here. And I'm just going to
go over everything. Smooth everything
out.
Okay. And I'm also going to smooth out
over the arms so that everything looks
nice and smooth.
Okay. I can adjust the shape of the
shoulders if needed. So I'm just going
to adjust this just a tiny bit more. I'm
going to smooth out these edges. So I'm
just making sure that all the
transitions look nice everywhere. If I
need to, I'm going to come in here and
add in some more volume and then smooth
out everything.
Okay, let's go behind the character. We
can use the clues brush. You can add in
volume coming out of the back right here
and going into the leg. So, just
something like this.
And then we can hold down shift and then
we can smooth out all of these. I want
to make sure it's really nice and smooth
so that everything blends nicely
together. Going to hold down shift and
then I'm just going to smooth out
everything.
At the back right here, I can use the
fish polish brush and define this edge a
little bit more. So just something like
this should be fine. Can also define
this edge at the back right here.
All right. Something that looks just
like that. Looks good. I'm going way to
smooth out the legs right here. Just
make sure that the shapes look good on
the leg. And at the front, you can use
the same technique. Adding the client's
brush. Then we can just smooth out
everything right here. So, I'm just
holding out shift and smoothing out
everything. I'm going to add in some
more volume right here.
And then I'm going to smooth out
everything on the character.
I'm going to also smooth out right here
till everything starts to look nice. I'm
going to add in some more client brush,
some more volume right here with the
glacious brush
and we can smooth out everything.
All right. And this is starting to look
good for the body of our character. All
right. I'm just going to smooth out some
of this. Okay. And this is going to look
good for the body of the character. You
can definitely refine yours a lot more.
Now, to actually add the hands and the
legs. So, let me just isolate this. Come
out of the isolation view. And I'm going
to rename this to hands.
I'm going to rename this to feet. And
the reason I didn't add the hands and
the feet to this body object is that if
I check on the feet, you can see the
amount of high resolution that we have
on the feet compared to the rest of the
body. So if we were to mesh it together
and mesh everything, we're going to have
a lot of geometry. So to avoid that,
here's how I'm going to do it. I'm just
going to go ahead and hide the hands and
the legs. H to hide this. On the body of
the character, I'm going to add in a
boolean modifier. I'm going to add in
two of them.
I'm going to change the two of them to
union. And just be of this that this
going to take some time to process on
your computer. So just actually make
sure to save so that in case Blender
crashes, you don't lose any progress. So
just go ahead and save your file. So I'm
going to select the object. I'm going to
select the hands right here. This is
going to take some time to process. So,
I'm going to pause the video and resume
it afterwards.
Okay. And now you can see that the hands
have been added to our mesh. If I just
zoom in here, you can see if I toggle
X-ray, you can see that it has been
properly properly added to the body.
Also, let's go ahead select the object
and I'm going to select the fit right
here. Okay. Now, the fit object has also
been added in. Let's go ahead and let's
apply all these modifiers. So we can
just Ctrl A and visual geometry to mesh.
Okay, now the boolean modifier has been
applied. Now we can select this and we
can go into sculpt mode and now be able
to smooth out the geometry between the
hands and the arms. So I'm just going to
smooth this out. So I'm just holding
down shift. I'm just smoothing out the
transitions right here.
I'm also going to smooth out transitions
on the side too.
Okay, something like this.
Add just going to smooth this out.
And also just smooth out right here. And
just make sure that the shapes going
into the hands actually looks nice.
Okay, I can add in some clay shapes
right here. Some volume right here.
And I'm going to smooth this out.
All right. Something like that looks
good for the arm. Let's go ahead and
also do the same for the leg. We can I'm
just going to smooth out all of these.
Then I'm going to use the clear brush to
add in some volume right here.
Okay. Something like this. And then I'm
just going to hold down shift, smooth
out everything
to make sure that that's looking good.
Okay. Some details I would like to add
on the legs at the ankles. So right
here, I can use the clean brush. Can
just smack in a V shape like this and a
U shape like this. So, just something
like this. I'm going to smooth over
everything.
And we're going to have the shape of an
ankle. I'm going to use the clues brush
to just mark that out a little bit more.
And I'm going to hold on control and
then just mark out this edge right here.
I can use the grab brush to pull that
out a little bit more. Something like
this. And I'm just going to smooth out
all of these. And I can go over those
shapes again. Just define the ankle a
little bit more.
I'm going to use the glitches brush. Add
in some volume here. Hold on shift. And
then I'm going to smooth this out.
All right. And I'm also going to go
ahead and add in the ankles on the
inside of the leg. I'm going to use alt
beat just max the port selected. And I'm
going to use the classic brush. I'll add
in some volume right here cuz at the top
right here can add in a U shape just
like this. I'm going to smooth over
everything. And the ankles on the
inside, we want them to be higher than
the ones on the outside. I'm just going
to place it right there. Okay, somewhere
around there. Looks good. I'm going to
smooth over all of these. And then I can
define these shapes a lot more. Just
going to use the crease polish brush to
define it exactly the same way we did
for the other work.
Okay, something like this is looking
good.
So, I'm just going to smooth out this.
All right, that's looking good for the
legs. You can definitely refine this a
lot more than I have done right here.
I'm going to clear the mask with AltB.
Now that we have refined the sculpt,
let's go ahead. I'm going to name this
body.
And for the feet and hands, you can
actually delete these ones as you don't
need them anymore. X. And I'm going to
delete those. And this rest, these other
ones, I'm going to rename them. So I can
rename this one to browse.
And I can rename these ones to eyes.
Okay. Now we are finally set for
topology. I'm going to create a new
collection here. I'm going to make sure
that this scene collection is selected
and I'm going to press C and that's
going to create a new collection right
here. I'm just going to name this low
poly. So, this is where all our topology
objects are going to be inside of. So,
let's get started with the topology.
Topology shift a mesh and let's add in a
plane. Before we can get started with
topology, I'm going to first of all
define those main edge flow around the
face. I'm going to hide the eyelashes
for now. I'm going to use the annotation
tool. I'm going to change the placement
from 3D cursor to surface. And let's
just plan out the topology first of all.
So, we need proper edge flow, proper
edge loops around the eye. So, I can
just draw this out
something like this. So this is going to
be for the eye and for the eyelids. You
also need proper edge flow around the
nose just like this. So this is going to
be mirrored over to the other side. So
I'm just drawing on one side. And then
you also need proper edge flow around
the mouth. Then we need proper edge flow
going from the nose to the side of the
face down to the chin. Okay. Then we
need proper edge flow from the forehead
to the side of the face
down to the chin. So that's the face
contour. Then we need proper edge flow
going around the ear. So just something
going around the ear like this.
All right. So these annotations are
going to help us or going to be a guide
when we start placing down theology. I'm
just going to go. Okay. I'm going to
check in front so that way I don't see
the annotation through the mesh. And
also I'm just going to reduce the
opacity of the animation of the
annotation so that doesn't get in the
way. I'm going to change this to.3.
Okay, somewhere around there is going to
be fine. And now we can start using our
plane to form the topology. I'm going to
be in vertx selection mode. I just need
one of these vertex. So I'm going to
select one. Ctrl I to invert the
selection. Then I'm going to go ahead
and delete this. I just want to get
started with one single vertex right
here. I'm going to make sure to turn on
snapping. So right here, my snapping
options are face project. And then I
also have rotate and scale turned on.
And then I'm going to make sure to turn
on snapping.
And now I'm going to move this right to
the eyes. So I'm just going to start
around the eyes. And for each of these
edge loops that we marked out, we are
going to start off with eight edges.
Okay. So, I'm going to start off with
this vertex right here. I'm going to
extrude one right here. I'm going to
extrude one right here. Extrude one
right here. I can select these two and
press F to create a new face right
there. If I double X-ray, you're going
to see that a little bit clearly. Like I
said, we want eight edges. Right now, we
have only four. And to actually see the
number that we have, we can come up here
to viewboard overlays and then we can
turn on statistics. That way it's going
to show the number of edges that we
have. To turn this into eight, we can
easily right click and then subdivide.
So that's going to give us eight edges
right now. And let's go ahead and just
place this right where they need to be.
So I'm just placing them on the eyelids
just like this. Okay. And then we can
select this one. E and S. I'm going to
extrude this out. I'm going to place it
just following the shape of the eyelids
of my character. So, something
like this.
Okay. Just going to place this right
here. I'm also going to select this one.
E and S. I'm going to extrude this one
out. And then I'm just going to place it
right here.
So, this is going to be the edge flow
around the eye. Okay, that looks good.
You might notice some weird shading on
this object. I'm just going to select
all and then press shift N. So you can
click normals. And also to see these
faces better, we can come up here to the
mesh edit mode overlays and then we can
turn on the topology. Okay. And you're
going to see this blue face. It's going
to make the mesh or it's going to turn
the mesh blue. If you don't see this
face, you can once again just press
shift N and that's going to recalate
normal so that you can actually see
colors. All right, I'm going to select
this and let's go ahead and let's make
the topology around the nasal liia. So,
shift D. I'm going to duplicate this.
I'm just going to place it right here.
Just at the corner of the mouth. I'm
going to extrude this to the middle of
the face. Right now, I don't know where
the middle of the face is. So, to be
able to know that, let's go ahead and
let's add a mirror modifier.
I'm going to make sure clipping is
turned on here. And then I'm also going
to turn on on cage so that we can
actually see the left and the right
side. And with clipping turned on, if I
move this to the middle, it's going to
clip at the middle right there. Okay,
I'm going to extrude this one down. And
right now, we have only two edges. We
can right click and subdivide this. Now,
we have four edges. I'm just going to
place this somewhere around here. And
like I said, we want eight edges. So,
I'm just going to right click and
subdivide this one more time. So, we
actually have eight edges right here.
So, I'm just going to make this follow
our annotation lines a bit more. Okay,
I'm going to like this E and S to
extrude and scale this out. Okay, you
can see these faces are not blue. I'm
going to recalculate normals on this
one. So, I'm just going to select this
with L and then shift N to calculate
normal so that we actually see these
blue faces right here.
Okay, something like this is going to
work just fine for us. Can make this a
little bit bigger. So, I'm just going to
scale this down or something more like
this. All right, I can select any of
this vertex here. I can shift D to
rotate any of this vertex. Let's go
ahead and let's make the loop around the
mouth. I'm going to extrude this in.
Also going to extrude this one in R. I'm
going to add a loop right there. R. Add
another loop right here. Now, if I
select this, we have four edges.
Remember, we want eight edges. So, I'm
just going to right click and subdivide.
And I'm just going to place these loops
following the shape of the mouth.
Okay, something like that. And I can
turn this on E and S to scale this out.
And then I can just bring this down. So,
I'm just going to arrange this something
like this. So, just going around the
mouth. Okay, that script. We can
duplicate any of these edges either from
here or here. Shift D to duplicate this
one. I'm going to place it right here.
I'm going to extrude it towards the
middle. Also the same thing for this
bottom one. We have two edges. Now we
can select this with L. Right click and
then subdivide. And then I'm going to
place this right here.
Now we have four edges. Let's right
click and subdivide once again. So
actually make this eight edges just the
way we want it to be.
Okay. And now we have something that
looks like this. We can select this E
and S to extrude and scale that out. And
then I'm just going to place it
something like this.
Okay. Now we have these edges. I'm just
going to also select this one. Shift N
and calculate the normals there so that
this F are actually showing up blue just
the way we want them to show.
All right. Right here we have these
loops. Now let's go ahead and do the one
going around the face. I can select
these two edges here. Shift D to
duplicate this one. Okay. I can select
this E to extrude this back. And I'm
just going to move it into a position
like this. L to select this. And I'm
just going to go ahead and recalate the
normals right away so that those faces
are the correct color. I'm going to
select this and I'm going to extrude
this one and two. So we need four faces
at the top. So going to extrude this one
more time.
Extrude this to the middle. So we have
one, two, three, four faces at the top.
And then we have another four faces at
the bottom which is going to make us
have eight edges. So I'm just going to
extrude this one down here. Going to
extrude one more time. I can scale this
one down. And I can just extrude one
more time here. So if I select this, we
have it faces. And if I select this, we
have it edges. Just exactly what we're
looking for. And I'm just going to
arrange this a little bit more. So now
when I'm arranging this, you're going to
notice I'm kind of following the same
edges that we have on the eyes right
here. So we're going to eventually
connect these together. So can just put
them close so that when you start
connecting, you don't need to find where
they are once again. So, I'm just going
to place them something like this.
Okay. Right here. Going to look good.
I'm going to go ahead and I'm also going
to extrude the ear. I'm just going to
duplicate this one to the top here.
Extrude. One, two, three. And we can
select this one. F to create a new face
right there. Or a new edge right there.
I can select this right click and
subdivide. Okay. I'm going to move this
one to the top of the ear. So to this
corner right here. Also going to move
this one to this bottom corner right
here. I'm going to select this one and
move it to this corner. So we want these
two edges on the rim of the ear. Just
like this. And then I'm also going to
select this one. Place it right here.
Something like this. Okay. Just going to
adjust it right here. And I can also
select this one. Let's go ahead and E
and S to extrude it. Before we do that,
let's make sure to turn off snapping and
then E and S. We can scale this one out.
And then we can turn back on snapping.
Then manually go and snap this in. So
I'm just going to place this somewhere
like this. Just following the annotation
that we marked out earlier. And you can
see some of these faces are have the
blue color. Some of these faces don't.
I'm going to select this and shift N to
recalate the normals right there.
Okay, this looks good. I'm just going to
line these ones up just a little bit
more. Something like this. Okay.
All right. So, these are the main edge
loops that we need on the face.
Everything that we're going to do from
this point on is just to fill in the
gaps and to merge this together. So,
let's go ahead and let's start merging
this together. I like to start at the
bottom of the mouth here. So, I'm just
going to select these two edies. F to
create a new face there. And I'm going
to keep on pressing F. So just select
this edge and press F. I'm going to keep
on pressing F F until I get to this face
right here. Okay. Now let's go ahead.
Let's fill in this part right here. I
can select these two. F to create a new
face. And then I'm just going to keep on
creating a new face until I get right
here. Okay. And you can see how easy it
was for us to join that up. These two we
can merge together. to M me at center
right there. Also these two that close
to each other and I'm going to this one
at center. I'm also going to do the same
right here. So you might see that we
need some more loop cuts. We're going to
add that in eventually. Right here I'm
just going to push this closer. Okay,
closer to each other. Something like
this. And I can select this one. M. I
can measure this one at the center. Can
also do the same here. M and measure at
center. I'm going to bring this one
down. Something like this. Okay. So, you
see this loop coming out here. So, this
one at the corner of the mouth. So, this
one right here. I'm going to merge it
with this one. M and made at center. And
also the same thing right here. M. And
I'm going to mesh this one at the
center. Okay. You're going to see that
we need some more lucas to be able to
mesh this more efficiently. Let's just
go ahead and merge some of these ones
before we start adding in those ed. I'm
going to make this one at center. And
you can actually select this and press
shift R to repeat your action. So,
select this and R. That's just going to
repeat your actual. So, we have
something that looks like this. Now,
let's go ahead and let's add in some
extra edge loop. So, we're going to need
an edge loop right here. So, I'm just
going to go around the eye. I'm just
going to add in extra loop cuts right
here. Okay. I'm going to make this
follow the shape of the eyelid a lot
more. So, I'm just going to bring this
back.
Okay. Something like that. And I also
just smoo out the topology going around
the eyelids a little bit more.
Okay. Now, we have something that looks
like this. Now, we can select this on M
and me this one at the center. Okay. for
right here. We can create a new face or
we can add in a loop cut an edge loop
right there. I'm going to select this
one M and I'm going to mess this at the
center right here. I'm going to select
this and we can create a new face. So,
if we select this one and you press F,
it's going to create a new face. If this
is not creating a new face for you, just
go up to edit and then go up to
preferences under get extension. search
for the F2 add-on and make sure this is
installed on your computer. I'm going to
select this one and press F to create a
new face right there. And also do the
same thing. Press F to create a new face
right there. And I'm just going to keep
on creating new faces until I get to the
top up here. So create a new face there.
Create a new face. You're going to
notice that we need an L cut right here.
Ctrl R. I'm going to add in one L right
there. And then I'm just going to fill
up that face. Okay, now we have
something that looks like that. Let's go
ahead and let's fill up this patch right
here. So, I'm just going to bring this
back and we're going to add in two loop
cuts right here. So, since I added two
loopers right here, I can also go ahead
and add in two loops right there. I'm
also going to add in at the back also.
And also, because we added a new loop
here, I'm just going to add one here.
I'm also going to add one at the back.
Okay, we can actually go ahead and I'm
going to select this and I'm going to
mesh this ones at the center. We can
press shift R to repeat our action.
Okay, something like this. And to fill
this up, we can F to create a new face
right there. We're going to need an edge
running right here so that we can create
new faces here. I'm just going to add in
one edge right there. I'm going to
select this one and press F to create a
new face right there. And more or less,
we have been able to fill up the
topology. Okay, we are going to need to
add in some more loop cuts just help us
to refine the shape and to actually make
sure that it's conforming to the surface
of the sculpt. So, Ctrl R. I'm going to
add in two new looks right there. And to
actually make sure that these are
sticking to the surface of the mesh. We
can add in a shrink wrap modifier.
And then for the targets, I'm going to
choose the body sculpt. And if I turn on
on kids, you're going to see what that
is doing. Okay. So now we have that
right there. I can add in a loop cut
right here just to have some more
geometry going around the eye. Can add
in a loop cut also just right here. So I
just added in this loop cut right there.
Okay. Right here the faces are being
stretched a little bit. So I can add in
a loop cut here. And also another loop
cut right here. Okay. This is looking
good so far. Now, what we want to do, if
I just move to this corner, you're going
to see how the mesh is sinking into the
sculpt. So, I'm going to go into object
mode to make sure that we apply the
shrink wrap modifier in edit mode. I'm
going to shift D to duplicate this and
then Ctrl A to apply the shrink wrap.
And now you're going to see when going
into edit mode, it looks a lot better.
You can also add in one loop cut right
here. So I'm just going to add one L
right here so that these pieces are not
too stretched. Going to add one look
here. Since I added one there, I can go
ahead and just add one at the back also.
Okay, now we have this. We need to go
ahead and smooth out the topology.
Easiest way to do this is going to go to
is going to be to go into sculpt mode.
And then let's come here to the object
properties. I'm going to turn on
wireframes.
And then we're going to use the relax
slide brush. So shift um space bar to
search for the relax slide brush. This
one right here. And if you hold down
shift while using the relax slide brush
is going to smooth out your topology.
So I'm just going to hover over over all
of this. Just going to smooth over all
of this. And yeah, right here we
haven't. So I'm just going to cut away.
Right here we haven't merged this
together. So I can add in two loop cuts
right there. and just going to make sure
to merge this one together. Okay, let's
go back into sculpt mode. And then let's
go ahead and smooth out this one right
here. So, I'm just going to hold down
shift and I'm just smoothing out the
overall topology on the character. I can
also space this ones out. Something like
this.
And just going to smooth this ones out.
So, I'm just holding down shift and I'm
smoothing all of this out.
All right, now we have topology that
looks good for the face. Okay, next
steps, we're going to go ahead and we're
going to fill up the mount area. So to
fill up the mouth, I can just select
these ones, E, Z, and S to extrude and
scale this down on the Z axis. Okay. And
then I'm just going to select
individually select these vertices. I'm
just going to place them on the line of
the mouth just like this.
Okay, I'm going to select this one
that's hiding here. I'm just going to
place it right here. And then I'm going
to add in some more L cuts right here.
I'm going to add them in right here. I'm
going to snap this to the surface of the
sculpt. Okay, now that we have that,
that looks good. Let's go ahead and
let's fill up the nose. So, the way I
like to fill up the nose. So, take a
look at this loop coming from the bottom
here and this loop coming from the
eyelid. I'm just going to select these
two edges and then I'm going to just
extrude going over the middle of the
nose. I'm just going to extrude this.
Something like this. I'm going to
arrange this a little bit properly. Just
straighten them out a little bit more.
And then I can select this to F to
create new face right there. And we can
fill this in. Okay. So F. I'm going to
create a new face right there. Can also
go ahead Ctrl R. And I'm going to add in
a looper right there to support the
geometry or the shape of the nose right
there. Okay, that looks good. I'm just
going to place this on the side of the
nose. We can also select this one right
here. And then we can extrude this out.
So I'm just going to select this. And
then I'm going to extrude it to right
here. F to create a new face right
there. Okay, right here. We're going to
zoom out. I'm going to create a new face
from this vertex here. F to create a new
face.
F to create another new face. F to
create another new face. And I'm just
going to press F to create a new face
right here. So now we have this ring
going around the nose. So I'm just going
to select this. And you want to make
sure that this is an even number. So we
have eight vertices right here. If you
have nine, you can just come here, add
in one more look to make that 10. Mine
is eight. So I'm going to leave it at
that. And if you also notice if I zoom
in, I'm kind of clipping into the mesh.
So I'm going to bring up the ed panel
under view. I'm going to set the reset
the default clip start. So you can just
hover over this and backspace to reset
that. And if you zoom in, you should
don't have that anymore. I'm going to
select this and E and S to scale this
in. I'm going to do that once again. E
and S to scale this in. And since we
have an even number of pieces, we can
just press Ctrl F and then we can grid
fill this in. If we did have an even
number of pieces and we try to grid fill
this in, it's going to give us this
error right here. So just make sure you
have an even number of let's see. So
Ctrl F grid field. And I can change the
way the grid field looks. I'm just going
to Yeah, two looks good. And then I'm
just going to snap that to the surface
of the sculpt. Something like this looks
good for the topology around the nose. I
can add in an extra loop cuts right
there. I'm just going to go into sculpt
mode and then I'm going to relax this
geometry a little bit more. So I'm just
using the relax light brush and just
relaxing out the geometry a little bit
more. So holding down shift and then
just smoothing out the topology.
Something like this.
So more or less these are the topology
that we need for the face. Let's go
ahead and let's finish off the head of
our character. For the head of our
character, we can select this one right
here. And we can just extrude following
the number of edges that we have here.
So I'm going to extrude one, two. So I'm
just following this number here. Three
4 5 6 7 and eight. So I believe I have
that correctly. Let's see. I'm going to
select this F to create a new face right
there. And just keep on pressing F to
create new faces. Okay. And now we have
created faces all the way on the
forehead. I'm just going to place this
correctly. You can add in some more
Lucas right here. So I can add in one L
right here. Another Lucas right here.
Since I added a L cut right here, I'm
also going to do the same at the bottom.
Ctrl R to add in a L cut at the bottom.
And also the same thing at the bottom.
We can select this and then we can
actually extrude following the number of
vertices that we have here. And we're
also conforming it to the shape of the
neck. I'm just going to extrude this
following the same number right here. I
think I have that correctly. Okay. And
then I can select F to create a new face
right there. Okay. And I don't have the
number correct. I can just add in
another look right here and F to fill
this in. Okay. I'm going to go ahead and
I'm going to smooth out this topology.
I'll go into sculpt mode and use the
relax light brush. I can just smooth out
the topology underneath right here.
Also, the same thing at top. I'm going
to hold on shift and smooth out the
topology right here. Can just also use
the grab brush and then just push this
back a little bit more
cuz something more like this is the
shape I'm looking for. I'll switch back
to the relax light brush. And I'm just
going to relax this out. Okay. To fill
up the rest of the head, I can select
these edges at the back. So, these are
the ones that we extruded at the back of
the ear. Can just extrude this back all
the way to the back. And I'll measure
them at the middle right there. And we
can add in more L cuts right here. So,
I'm just going to add in any number.
Seven is the number I added right here.
Okay. And now, we need to fill up the
back. So, you can see something
happening here. Let's go ahead and apply
our shank modifier. I'm going to
duplicate this one. So you can actually
come down here and duplicate and then
also apply this. Okay, that looks good.
And then to fill off the back of the
head, I can select this edges coming
from here. E to extrude them backwards.
Something like this. And I'm just going
to place them something more like this.
And then I can select this one. F to
create a new face there. And I can just
keep on creating new faces till I get to
right here.
Okay, something like this is going to be
fine. We are going to need two edges
running to the back here. I'm going to
add in two right there. Then we can fill
up this face. We're going to need two
loops coming from right here. So, we can
add in two. I can also fill up these
faces right here. And then we're going
to need two edges right here, too. I'm
going to place it right there. I'm just
going to fill up these faces. If you
need more looks at the top here, we can
add in one here and add in another one
right here. Now, I'm just going to go
into sculpt mode and I'm going to smooth
out the topology. So, go into sculpt
mode with the relax light brush. So, I'm
just going to hold down shift. I'm just
going to smooth over the topology that
we have right here. Okay. And you can
see how easy it was for us to fill out
the back just using that method. So, I'm
just going to hold down shift and I'm
going to smooth out everything.
All right, this [snorts] clips. I'm
going to go ahead and Ctrl R. I'm going
to add in a loop cut right here just to
add some more geometry around the ear.
And now let's go ahead and let'size the
ear. So the ear is going to differ from
most characters. Your ear might be less
detailed than this or might be more
detailed than this. So I'm just going to
show you the general approach for
topologizing the ear. So I'm going to
start from this edge right here and I'm
just going to extrude this following the
shape of the ear. So I'm just going
around the ear. Just going to extrude
it. The number of edges or the number of
edes I'm extruding right now doesn't
really matter. I'm just going to extrude
this down
should till I get somewhere around here.
I can select this one and F to create a
new face right there. Okay. I also do
the same at the back. So from this edge
right here, I'm just going to extrude.
Now we need to follow the same number of
edges that we extruded in front. So I'm
just going to extrude. So just following
the same number that we have there.
Don't worry if you make a mistake. You
can always add or remove as you see fit.
So I'm just going to keep on extruding.
I'm just following the same number I
extruded out in front. I'm going to
extrude this all the way back to the
top.
Okay. And right here, we want to merge
this one right here. So, I'm just going
to create a new face right there. Just
going to adjust this. Okay. We can
select these ones and F to create a new
face right there. And I'm just going to
keep on pressing F to keep on creating
new faces just to fill up these edges
that we extruded out. Okay. And
everything should work just fine. Yeah.
And now we're going to need three edges
running through these faces here. So,
Ctrl R3. I'm going to add in loop cuts
right there. And then we can just select
these ones. F to create a new face
there. I'm just going to keep on
creating new faces right there. And also
the same thing right here. Going to
create new faces right here. Okay. I'm
going to go into objects mode and I'm
going to duplicate and apply the shrink
wrap modifier so that I can apply the
shrink wrap transformations in edit
mode. Okay, the back of the ear is going
to be very easy to do. I'm just going to
select this E and S to scale this down.
I'm going to do that one more time. E
and S to scale this down. And then Ctrl
F. I'm going to grid fill this in. So
once again, you want to make sure you
have an even number of faces right here.
If you don't have an even number, you
can just add in a look right here. But I
do have an even number. So Ctrl F and
I'm going to grid fill this in. Okay,
something like this. Definitely looks
good. I'm going to use go into sculpt
mode and I'm going to use the relax
slide brush. So I'm just going to hold
down shift and then just smooth out the
geometry at the back of the ear.
do something like this for the back of
the ear. Starting to look good. Okay, I
like what this is looking like right
now. And now let's go to the front of
the ear. Like I said, the front of the
ear is going to be different for most
characters. So this the general flow
that I use to redoubleize the ear. So
I'm just going to select this E and S.
I'm going to extrude and scale that in.
And then I'm just going to place this at
the rim of the ear.
Okay, now I have something that looks
like this.
All right, that looks good. Right here,
since we have this part of the sculpt, I
can just extrude this out. And I'm just
going to follow the shape of that part
of the ear. So, just something like
this. And I can select this one and F. I
can create a new face right there. We
can actually select this. We have I have
nine vertices here. It won't be easy to
grid fill this in. So, Ctrl R or I can
actually just select this and dissolve
one of these edges. Okay. Something like
this. And E and S. I'm going to scale
this in. And Ctrl F. I'm going to grid
fill this in. I'm going to change what
the grid field looks like. Okay. I think
two should be just fine. Something like
this looks good. And I can go back into
sculpt mode and just use the relax brush
to just smooth that out a little bit
more. I wait also add in another look
right here so that that conforms better
to the shape of the sculpt. All right,
with this we can go ahead. I can select
this one E and S to extrude and scale
this in. And then I'm just going to
place this following the ring for the
shape that we have on the sculpt.
Something like this. Just placing that
around the whole ear.
Okay.
Something like this. Right here. I'll
make sure that there are no any errors
on this code. And something like this
looks good.
I'm going to add in one loop cut right
here just to make that conform better to
the shape of the sculpt. And now let's
see. So how we are going toize this?
There are many different ways that we
canize this specific part of the ear.
And also for the air, you don't need to
be really specific because the air is
not going to deform as much. But if your
character is going to if you know that
of your character is going to deform as
much, then you can start to keep the
deformationations in mind. But for this
ear, it's not going to deform as much.
So let's just go ahead and let's figure
something out. I'm going to just select
these ones right here.
and select this on E and S to extrude.
And then I'm just going to place this.
So I want to follow the shape I have on
my sculpt. I want to make sure to
conform to the shapes that I have there.
Okay. I can also select right here,
create a new face. And also create
another new face right here. Something
like that looks good. I can select this
one and make it follow the shape that I
have here on the ear.
I'm just going to extrude this out.
Okay, something like this. I can select
this one and create a new face right
there. We could actually just control Z
and I'm going to merge these ones
together. Mge at center. Something like
this. All right. So, I'm going to create
a new face here. Going to create a new
face here. Another new face here. I can
fill this one in. Something like that. I
can create a new face right here. I'm
just following the shape of the ear. Uh
I initially sculpted something like
this. It's going to be different for
every ear. So just you're going to need
to do some problem solving to figure
this one out. Okay. I'm going to create
a new face right there. Right here. I
can select these ones. E and S to scale
this in.
Okay, something like this. Actually,
that doesn't work right now. I'm going
to create a new face right there. And
another new face right here. And now I
can select this E and S to scale this
in. Okay. And Ctrl F. I can grid fill
this one in. Okay. Also the same thing
right here. E and S. Something like
that. I'm just going to cover some area
space so I can create a new face right
there. And E and S. I'm just going to
scale this in and Ctrl F. We can grid
view this one in. Okay, now we have
topology that looks like that on the
air. I'm going to duplicate and apply
the sh modifier. And I'm just going to
go into the sculpt mode and I'm just
going to relax the topology that we have
on the ear. Just like so.
So, something like this. I wasn't really
too specific for the ear. I just wanted
theology to follow the shape of the ear
that I had. And something like that is
already looking good for the ear. And
I'm just going to smooth the rest of the
ear out. The geometry around the ear
out. I'm just going to smooth all of
that out. Okay, now we have something
that looks like this. I'm going to push
some of this back and hold down shift
and then just smooth out everything.
Also smooth it out all the way to the
back. Okay. All right. Now let's go
ahead and let's extrude the edges at the
back of the neck. I can select these
ones and I can extrude this down. Can
extrude it down one more time. And we
can fill up these faces right here. We
can also do something right here. So we
can just extrude following the shape of
the neck right here.
And I'm going to select this and just
create new faces right there just by
pressing F. And if I select this, we
have 50 pes. I want to make this an even
number. So I can just select this one.
F. And I'm just going to create new
faces right there too.
Okay. Now we should have 14 vert. That's
fine. Now we can select this and we can
extrude it down. Before extruding down
just make sure to turn off snapping. And
then I'm going to extrude this one down.
S and zero. I'm going to scale that on
the Z axis by zero. Going to scale this
out. And Ctrl R. I'm going to add in
like five L cuts right there. I'm going
to duplicate and apply the shr modifier.
I'll go to sculpt mode. I'm just going
to use the relax slide brush and then
just relax all of these. Okay. Right
here. I can see that some of these
vertes mesh together. I'm going to turn
off clipping and then I'm just going to
pull this out of each other. Then then
I'm going to turn back on clipping.
Then I'm just going to smooth this out.
All right. Ah, this is essentially how
weize the face and the head of our
character. Right here, you're going to
notice how the loops or the topology is
going up. This is because of the min
modifier. So, if I apply the modifier
and I actually enable X symmetry here
and if I hold down shift and smooth
topology, that would don't go up
anymore. So, I'm just going to hold down
shift and then just smooth that out.
We're going to add back in the mirror
modifier. But for now, let's just apply
that and smooth out all of these. Okay,
I'm just holding down shift and filling
out all the geometry that I have right
here.
Okay, something like this is looking
good. I'll go back into edit mode and
I'm going to use an add-on to
automatically help us add the mirror
modifier. So, if I come right here under
edit, auto mirror add-on. If you don't
have this enabled, just go up to edit
and preferences and then search for the
auto mirror add-on. Make sure this is
installed on your computer and then just
press auto mirror and it's automatically
going to add in a mirror modifier for
you. I'm going to move this above the
shrink wrap modifier. Okay, something
like this looks good. And this is
essentially how weize the head and face
for our character. I'm going to go back
to the annotations and I'm just going to
get rid of this. We don't need them
anymore.
All right. So, this is how youize the
head and face for your character. So,
let's go ahead and let's summarize this
chapter. So, you've seen how toize the
face using very simple techniques. So,
we started low poly and then we started
adding more resolution as we needed
them. And you have seen the important
edge flow for facial deformation. You
have seen how these individual edge flow
and edge loops are going to make the
formation much better. All right, don't
forget if you need any extra help with
anything I've mentioned so far, you can
join the stylish character academy where
I'm going to be holding your hand every
step of the process. And if you're
loving the master class so far, go ahead
and leave a review of this master class
on Trust Pilot. The link is going to be
below this video. And with that, I'll
see you guys in next chapter where we
are going to beizing the body of our
character. I'll see you guys there.
Welcome to chapter 7. In this chapter,
we are going to be taking a look at
topologizing the body of our character.
And agenda for this chapter is very
simple. We going to take a look at some
important things to remember when it
comes toizing the body of our character
and then we'll take a look at body
topology for animation. So that's the
topology on the body that's going to be
proper for animation and information and
then we'll dive into Blender and we
actually topize the body of our own
character. All right, make sure to share
this master class with someone. Let's
help more artists create work that they
are proud of. And a little bit of
warning for you right now. This is the
most important video in the entire
master class. So watch the entire video.
Don't skip and don't jump around. All
right. Things to remember for body.
So in this chapter we are going to be
topologizing the body, the hands and the
feet. However, the process doesn't end
there because there are some essential
areas and some essential essential
objects that we need to create before we
can call the body topology complete. And
these areas include the eye cavity. If
you don't know what the eye cavity is,
it's just essentially the part where the
eyeball is going to be sitted in. I'm
going to show you how to model that. And
then we also need the mouse cavity. So
this is where stuff like the teeth, the
tongue and the gums are going to be
seated inside of. And also the mouth c
is important. So when the character
opens his mouth, you actually it's not
an empty space. You actually see
something inside of there. So that's
where the teeth, the tongue is going to
sit. So that's what the mouth cavity is.
So we are going to go ahead and model
this. Once weize the body, the hands and
the feet. And in addition to this, we
also need to model in objects like the
eyeballs. And we also need to model in
the teeth and the tongue for our
character. And I'm going to show you how
to use already existing assets to
actually model the eyeball and the teeth
and the tongue for your character. So
you don't have to model everything from
scratch. I'm going to show you how to
use assets to do this. Okay. So once
these elements are in place, once the
eye cap is in place, once the mouth cap
is in place, once we have gone ahead and
we have added in the eyeballs and the
teeth and the tongue, then we are going
to go ahead and we are going to repro
the sculpted details back onto our
topologized mesh to recover details from
our original mesh. Now I want you to
keep in mind I did not say we are going
to bake our sculpted details. We are
going to repro sculpted details. Those
are two very different things and I'll
show you how we are going to do it as we
get to that area of the video. Okay.
Body topology for animation. When
creating topology for the character's
body, we must think about how the body
is going to move and how the body is
going to deform during animation. To
achieve this, rely on some specific
loops around major areas of the body.
And these loops include first off we
have the shoulder loops. And I'm just
going to jump into Blender right here.
And I'm going to show you some examples
of this. So right here we have these
loops that go around the shoulder just
like this. And then also have these
loops that go around the armpit. So we
need these loops. These are going to be
important. If I just go on the rig and I
just start to deform this area, you're
going to see how because of those loops
that we have going around to the back
and also these ones around the armpit.
You can see how the shoulder is
deforming really nicely because of those
loops that we have. So on the body, we
want to make sure we have the shoulder
loops in place. And then we also want to
have loops for the elbow. I'm going to
dive back into Blender. And if I just go
to the back here, you're going to see
that we have this kind of patch at the
back of the elbow. And if I just select
this and I move this, I'm just going to
move it into an angle like this. You're
going to see because of that patch is
helping us retain the shape of the air.
So that's what the loop around the elbow
is going to be useful for. So I'm going
to show you how to model in something
very simple like that. And then we also
need loops around the wrist of our
character. So right here, all these
loops are important. If I just select
this and I start to just rotate this
around, you're going to see how these
loops are helping deform the wrist of
our character. So this one is going to
be really important. We need loops right
here. Okay. And then we also need loops
around the knee. So just like we had for
the elbows, we're going to have the same
thing for the knee. So that when a
character deform when the leg bends like
this you can see how it's preserving the
shape of the knee. Okay. And then
finally we need loops around the hips
for our character. So right here we need
these loops on the hips so that once our
character deforms you can see how those
loops are helping to preserve the
volumes of our character. So those are
the main edge loops that we're going to
use on our character. So we need the
shoulder loops, the elbow loops, the
wrist loops, the knee loops, and loops
around the hips. All right, at this
checkpoint, we can dive into Blender and
we can retize the body of our character.
So this is where we stopped up from the
last chapter. Let's go ahead and let's
start with topology of the body. I'm
going to make sure to turn on screencast
keys here so I can see all the shortcuts
I'm pressing. And I'll make sure that
the low poly collection here is
selected. We still want to make sure we
are moving in the low poly collection.
To get started with the body, we're
going to start off with a circle object.
So, shift a mesh. I'm going to add in a
circle right there. And just before
clicking anywhere else, just come down
here. And then we want to change the
number of vertices here to 10. Okay, I'm
going to start off with 10 vertice just
like this. And I'm going to go into edit
mode. I'm going to go from the front
view. Make sure snapping is turned off
for this. Then you can just scale this
down. I'm just going to move this right
here for the armpit. So you want to
start creating the shoulder loops that I
showed you earlier. So I'm just going to
place this directly under the armpit. So
something just like this. Okay. Also
from the side view, I'll make sure that
that envelopes the whole armpit. And I
can just S and Y and scale this on the Y
axis. Something like this. Okay. I can
select this with this selected. Shift D
to duplicate this. And I can rotate it
and scale it here. I'm going to place
this one for the loops around the arm.
So this edge here is going to start
forming the loops around the arm. from
the side S and Y. I'm going to scale
this up a little bit on the Y axis. I
can also rotate it and then just move
this into place. So, we have something
that looks like this. Okay. Now, with
this in place, I'm just going to extrude
this one down. Okay. Something like
that. I'll select this loop here. I'm
going to extrude this one this way. I'll
scale it up and rotate. So, something
like this. And then I'm going to extrude
this one going backwards. And I can just
scale it up just to fit the shape of our
character. I can also move this one
forward. You're going to notice now that
the faces are inverted. So I can select
all and press shift N to recalate the
normal so that we actually see the blue
faces. And then to make all of this snap
to the surface of our sculpt, you can go
ahead and can add a shrink wrap
modifier. Our target is going to be our
body sculpt. Okay, let's go ahead and
let's apply the shrink wrap transforms
in edit mode. So I'm going to duplicate
this. Then I'm going to apply that one.
Okay. Now we have it touching the
surface of our character just the way we
need it to be. Okay. I'm going to leave
three faces at the top here. Then I'm
going to start from right here. So this
edge right here. I'm just going to
extrude it. I'll turn on snapping at
this point. I'm going to extrude it.
Place it right here. And I'm just
following the number of edges that we
have up here. I'm going to extrude this
right here. So I'm leaving 1 2 3. And
then I can connect these two together.
So I can select them and F just connect
those two together. Okay, right here we
can fill this on and fill in if right
there. And if we to fill this in, we're
going to create a triangle. We don't
want triangles for this topology. So I
can add in a loop right here. Also do
the same thing on this other side. So
I'm just going to add in a loop cut
here. And I'm going to select this and F
to create a new face there. and also
select these ones and F to create a new
face here. I'm just going to push these
ones down. So these loops right here is
going to be the loop going around the
shoulder that I showed you earlier. This
one is going to go around the whole
character just like this. So we can
select this edge here. Then we can just
extrude this one to the middle of the
character. Not exactly sure where the
middle of the character is. So we can go
ahead and we can add in a mirror
modifier. I'm going to make sure to move
this above the train modifier. And I'm
also going to turn on clipping right
here. And I'll also turn on on keyage on
the mirror modifier. And I'm just going
to place that right there at the middle.
Also the same thing at the back. I'm
going to extrude this all the way to the
back. And then I'm just going to adjust
some of this. So I'm just making this
loops a bit more wider. So I'm just
going to bring this ones up a little bit
more. I can select in zone and I'll
place it right here. Okay. Now we have
something that looks like this. If I
select this loops here, you can see we
have 10 verts also. The same thing right
here. We have 10 vert. So we can just
select these two and we can come up here
to edge or the shortcut is ctrl E and
then you can just say bridge edge loops
and it's going to bridge those edge
loops together. As long as you have the
same amount of vertices on the both
edges, it's going to bridge those edge
loops together. All right, the next
thing I like to do at this stage is just
to go ahead and subdivide this loop. So,
I'm going to Ctrl R. I'm going to
subdivide this. And I'm just going to
add in new loop cut. And right here, I
added in this loop cut here. And you're
going to notice that it also went ahead
and added in here. So, we're not going
to add in here again. I'm just going to
Ctrl R. I'm going to keep on subdividing
those loops this way. Ctrl R.
And we want to skip this one. I'm going
to add in a loop right here. If you did
that correctly, you should have if you
select here, you you should have only 20
vertices. So that's how I know you did
that correctly. Just going to add one
more loop cut right here. I can also add
in one more loop cut right here. We can
add in some more loop cuts going across
here. So Ctrl R. I'm just going to add
in two loop cuts going across here.
Okay, I don't want the mesh to sink into
our score. So, I'm just going to go back
into object mode. I'm going to duplicate
and I'm going to apply the shrink craft
modifier and going back into edit mode.
Now, we have something that looks like
this. For this loop in the middle here,
I'm just going to make sure that this
one is actually following the shape of
the armpits. So, I'm just going to use
the grab brush and I'm going to push
these ones back. Okay. Somewhere around
here. Looks good.
Okay. Now, something that I want to keep
in mind at this stage, if I select right
here, you're going to notice that we
have nine vertices and eight edges. And
if I select the face of our character or
the fish topology, you're going to
notice that we have 14 vert and 13
edges. So at this point we want to go
ahead and line this up. So we have eight
vert here or we have nine vertices here.
I can control R. I can add in three loop
cuts here. Control R I can also add in
three loop cuts right here. And now if I
just select that we have 15 vertices and
14 edges. And let me see what we got
here. So we have 14 here and we have 13
here. So I'm going to need to remove one
of these edges. And I'm going to need
more edges in front than I need at the
back. So, I'm just going to come in here
and I can get rid of this one. And now,
if I select it, we should have 14
vertices and 13 edges, just like what we
have right here. Okay. So, when we want
to merge those two together, it's going
to be really easy to merge those
together. So, you just want to make sure
to keep this in mind. And I'm just going
to space this out a little bit more.
Okay. Right here, I'm going to select
this loop. Okay. I'm going to turn off
snapping
and E and S. I'm going to extrude and
scale this in. And I'm just going to
move this up. Okay. And what I'm going
to do, I'm going to go ahead and turn on
snapping. I'm just going to go into
vertx selection mode. I'm going to
select each of these individual vertex
and I'll just move them to the
corresponding edge on the neck. So I'm
just moving them to the corresponding
edge so that once we come actually merge
this together. It's going to be a lot
easier to do that. So I'm just going to
move them like so. Also bring this right
here. I'll select this one. I'm going to
place it here. And also the same thing
right here.
Okay, this is looking good. I can add in
a loop cut right here. I can actually
add in two loop cuts right there. I'm
going to go ahead. I'm going to
duplicate and apply the shrink modifier
to see the wireframes of the body
topology. We can go into the object
properties under V display. Let's just
turn on wireframes. And we can actually
go ahead and we can smooth out the
topology a bit more. So I'll go into
sculpt mode. I'll use the relax slide
brush. So this one right here. And I'll
just hold down shift. Then I'm going to
smooth out the topology right here. Just
holding down shift. And I'll smooning
out the topology. so that we have
topology that looks really nice. And
don't worry that it's going backwards a
little bit once we mesh the head and the
body together. We going to to smooth out
the double edg together and it should
line up really nicely. So that looks
fine for the body of the character. All
right, let's go ahead and let's continue
on with the chest of the character. I'm
going to select these two edges in the
middle. I'm going to bring them a little
bit closer.
Something like this. And I'm just going
to extrude in the middle of the chest
right here till I get to somewhere about
here. Okay, something like this.
Extrude. And from right here, we can
already see this edge lining up with the
breast of our character. Or even if your
character is a male character, just find
the edge lining up with the chest. And
then we can extrude this following the
shape of the chest or the breast of your
character. I'm just going to extrude
this this way.
Okay.
And once I get somewhere around here, I
can select this to M major center. Also
the same thing here, M. And we can mesh
those ones at the center. And I'll just
make sure that this is following the
shape of our character's chest.
Okay. So now we have something that
looks like this. [snorts]
Okay. If your character is a female
character, you can just go ahead select
this and then E and S to extrude and
scale this in. E and S to extrude and
scale this in. Then you can actually go
ahead and grid fill this in. If you grid
fill it in and it brings up this kind of
error, that's completely fine. You just
need to add in one loop cut here. You
can add in one loop cut here. You can
add in one here. I'm just going to add
in one here. Then you can go ahead and
grid fill this in. But if your character
is a male character, I'm just going to
undo my steps. Something that you can
actually do is just to actually go ahead
and grid fill this in from this point
on. So you can add in a loop right here
so that we have an even number of
vertices. So Ctrl F and then you can
just grid fill this in something like
this. If your character is a male
character, something like that is going
to work for a male character. Since my
character is a female character, I'm
just going to go ahead and show and do
the method that I showed you earlier. So
E and S to extrude and scale this in.
I'm just going to do that a couple of
times till I get to the middle right
here. And then Ctrl F. I can grid view
this in right here. Okay, I like how
that looks. And then I'm going to use
the relax brush. And then I'll just
smooth out the whole topology that we
have here. And I'll make sure that
topology is still following the shape of
the sculpt. Okay. So, I'm just going to
hold on shift and smooth out everything
just like this. Okay, I'll hold down
shift and I'll smooth out the whole
topology to make sure everything still
looking nice right here.
Okay, something like that looks good for
the chest of my character. And then from
right here, you can just select these
edges and I'm going to extrude this one
back. I can also select this one and I
can just extrude this one back. So we
are going to connect them together. So
I'm just extruding back following the
number of edges that we have here. And I
can stop somewhere around here. I can
select these two edes to create a new
face there. And I can also create new
faces right there. I can just select
these ones and I can extrude the ones
all the way to the back. Okay, something
like that is going to be fine. I can add
in two loops right there. And I can fill
this one in. Can also add in two loop
cuts right here. I can fill this one in.
Okay, we can have something like this
just to have some more loot cuts going
down to the back. I can add in two loop
cuts right here. And I can select this M
and I made that center. I can also do
the same thing here. M and make this one
as center. I'm just going to move this
so that we have some space right here.
So, I'm just going to move this so I
have some space to work with right here.
I'll move this one back. And right here,
I'm going to delete this face. Okay. And
then we can add, we can also delete
these faces. Then we can fill this one
in just like that. I'll go into sculpt
mode. I'm going to use the relax slide
brush and I'm going to smooth all of
this out. Okay. I'm just going to hold
down shift and I'm smoothing all of
these out. Okay, so with the relax
brush, just holding down shift and
smoothing all of that out. Okay, I also
smooth out under the armpits right there
and also smooth out right here. Okay,
now I'm going to just bring this up. So
I want the topology to follow the shape
of my character's body. So I can see
that I have this view cage showing right
here. I can select this and before you
extrude this down, you want to turn off
snapping. If you don't turn off snapping
and you extrude this down, you're going
to have something that looks like this,
which is not exactly what you want. So,
just make sure to turn off snapping.
Then we can extrude this one down. Then
I can turn back on snapping right here.
And then I can just place this vert
on the surface of the skull. So, I'm
just placing each individual vert on the
surface of the sculpt. I can select
these ones and then just grab them to
move those into place. I can do that
once again. I'll turn off snapping right
here. And I'll extrude this one down.
I'll turn back on snapping. I'm just
going to place this right here.
Okay. I'll select these ones at the back
and G to just place them at the right
spots. Okay, now we have geometry that's
going to conform a little bit better to
the shape of our sculpt. I'm going to
select this. I'll turn on snapping once
again. I can just extrude this E and Z
to extrude this down. And also S and Z.
I'm going to scale this on the Z axis by
zero. Okay, something like that. Now
just place it right there. I can add in
some more loop cuts right here. I'll go
into the sculpt mode and I'll use the
relax brush and then just relax this
out. Okay, hold down shift and I'm just
going to relax the topology in the front
right here. Okay, I'm going to show you
how to add some more topology right here
to further define the shape of the of
our sculpt. I'm going to show you or we
can actually just do that right now. I'm
just going to select this
right here. And just to have more
topology that's going to conform to the
shape of our sculpt, I'm going to select
this. Ctrl B to bevel them. Okay, I'm
going to come down here to the bevel
options. I'm going to increase the
segment two. Okay, we have created
triangles here. I'm going to show you
how to remove this. We can come up here
and turn on the auto merge vertices. I'm
going to select this and GG to just
merge those two vertices together. We
still have this triangle here. So I can
select this and Ctrl X to remove that
triangle. Okay, now we have more
vertices without taking more V to the
back. We have more vertices that we can
just place on the character here. I'm
going to not snapping. So we can just
place this to further define the shape
of that rib cage. Okay, so something
like this. I'll place this on the edge
of the rib cage. Something like this.
I'll go into scul mode. I'll make use of
the relax brush. I'm just going to
smooth out the geometry so we have
something that looks more like this.
Okay. And that's going to retain the
shape of our sculpt a lot more. I can
also add in one loop cut right here. And
I'll just go into object mode. I'm going
to duplicate and apply the shroud
modifier. And I'll go ahead and just
hold down shift and smooth out the
topology that we have right here. I also
do the same at the back. Hold on shift
and smooth out the topology that we have
right here. Okay. From right here, I can
select this one. I'll turn off snapping.
I'm going to extrude this one down.
Okay. I'll scale it and then just move
it on the X-axis. I'm just going to
slightly rotate this. Something like
this. Okay. Now, to apply our shrink
wrap transformations, I'm going to go
back into object mode. I'm going to
duplicate and apply this one.
All right. Now we have something that
looks like that. I can go back into
object mode or back into this mode. And
then I'm just going to line these ones
up.
Okay. So that it just follows the shape
of our sculpt. I can also add in another
loop right here. And then just make that
follow the shape of our sculpt. And then
I'm going to add in some more loop cuts
at the back right here. Okay, this is
looking good. And then to continue on,
I'm going to just select three edges
here. And we can extrude this one down.
And I'm just going to extrude it to
follow the shape of this part of the
character right here till we get all the
way to somewhere here. So let me just
clean this. And we're going to go ahead
and we're just going to extrude this.
And we are going to extrude and scale.
We can also rotate this if needed.
Extrude and scale. The number doesn't
matter right now. I'm going to turn on
snapping so that it's actually snapping
to the surface of our sculpt.
Okay, I'm going to scale this one down.
I'm going to extrude this one. Scale it
down. You want to make sure that it
doesn't match at the middle here. So, if
you extrude, you want to make sure that
that doesn't match at the middle. Okay.
So, just extrude. And then you can scale
it down. Something like this. Extrude
and scale this one down. And I'll go all
the way to the back. I'll extrude this
one out. Scale it down. Extrude this one
out. Scale it up in this case. And I'll
just keep on extruding right here. And
like I said earlier, the number that
you're extruding right now doesn't
really matter. Just keep on extruding
until you get somewhere around here.
Then I'm just going to space this ones
out. And then can create new faces right
here. Okay. We're going to need to
smooth out the topology here. I can go
into sculpt mode and the relax light
brush. I'm just going to smooth out the
topology right here. And I'm also going
to smooth it out right here. For these
ones right here, I'm going to switch to
the grab brush. So, this brush right
here. And I'm just going to move these
ones up. And we want to start planning
out the shape of the topology that's
going to go around the chips just like I
showed you earlier. Okay. So, I'm just
going to move these up. So something
like this.
Okay. So we need something like this.
And
right now we are done with the body.
Once you're able to get here, this is
the hard part of itizing the body. The
legs and the hands are just essentially
tubes. So it's going to be very easy
toize them. So once we're here, what we
want to do, let's just go ahead select
this. I'll turn off snapping. And then
I'm just going to come from the front
view and I'm going to extrude this one
down. Rotate it this way. And I'm going
to scale this on the Z axis by zero to S
Z and zero right here. Then I'm going to
move this one down. I'm going to scale
it. And then just place it right here.
So I just want a straight edge.
Something like this.
Okay.
So, we just want something that looks
like this. I'm going to move this one
forward so that it conforms better to
the shape of our character. Okay. Now,
we have something that looks like this.
I'm going to go ahead and duplicate and
apply the shrink modifier. Okay. And
then I'm just going to add in two loop
cuts right here. I'm going to go ahead
again duplicate and apply the shrink
modifier. And now with this we can go
ahead and we can use the relax slide
brush and we can just smooth out the
topology that we have here. I also
smooth out the topology that I have at
the back right here.
Okay. Going to go ahead and then just
smooth this out. So we want something
that looks like this. You can see the
way the topology is following and
conforming to the shape of our
character. That's exactly what we want.
And then we can just adjust this
topology right here just so that it
looks really nice. Okay, some of these
vertes are really tight here together.
We're going to adjust that in a moment.
But for now, this looks good. Okay, now
we are done with the body. Let's go
ahead and let's work on the legs and the
arms. For the legs is very simple. We
can just select this. I'm going to turn
off snapping. I'm going to go to the
front view and I'm just going to extrude
this down. right here. And I can also
scale it down. Just place it somewhere
around here.
Okay. From this side, I'm going to move
this right here to make sure that that
just follows the shape of our character.
Okay. And that's going to be fine. I'm
going to come in here at the middle. I'm
going to add in another loop cut just at
the knee. And I'm just going to rotate
this to follow the shape of the knee.
So, something like that. And then I can
come in here. I can add in one lucas. I
can scale this one up and move this
right here. I can also add in a loop
right here. Scale this one up and move
it to fit the shape of our character.
Okay, now that we have something like
this, we can come in here and we can add
in more loop cuts. I'm going to add in
four loop cuts right there. I'm also
going to add in four loop cuts there.
I'll add in another four loop cuts
there. And right here, I can add in
seven loop cuts. Okay, so this is
looking good right now. I'm going to go
into skull smooth and we can make use of
the relax light brush and then just
smooth everything out together. So I'm
just going to hold down shift. I'm going
to smooth out the topology right here.
So I'm just holding down shift on the
relax brush and I'm just smoothing out
topology here inside here. You just want
to smooth out the topology so that it's
not too pinched together. So that
topology is not too pinched together. So
I'm just going to hold down shift and
I'm going to smooth all of this out.
Right. Also something I want to do. I'm
going to select the vert here. And you
can see I have an odd number of faces
going down to the leg. So I'm just going
to come probably somewhere around here.
I can add in an extra loop cut here. So
that the faces I have going down here is
an even number. That's going to make the
leg a little bit easier. And now you can
see that the deformations or the
topology on the leg is now actually
following the shape of our score. So, we
can come back to object mode. We can
duplicate and we can apply this right
here. I'm going to add in some more loop
cut right here so that we don't have
this stretched pieces. I'm just going to
add in some more loop cut. I'll go back
into sculpt mode and I'll just hold down
shift with the relax brush and I'm going
to smooth one of these out.
Okay, holding down shift and I'll smoon
this out. Can also push this topology in
the right direction. So something like
that is looking good for me. Okay, at
the back I'll see what it looks like
right here. We added the new look and
just come in here and then also still
smooth out the topology at the back.
Okay. And I like what the topology at
the back is looking like right here. I'm
just going to push these ones together
so that it follows the shape of our
sculpt. At the back, we can smooth this
one out right here. Okay. Also at the
back here, I'm going to select these and
I'm just going to push this ones
together. Okay. And also the same thing
right here. I'm going to push this ones
together. And I'll go into scul mode.
I'm just going to smooth out the
topology right here.
Okay. Now we have something that looks
like this.
All right. It's looking good. Right now
I'm just going ahead and I'm smoothing
out all the topology that we have. And
I'll come in here and I can add in one
extra loop cut right here. Going to hold
down shift and I'm going to smooth out
right here.
Okay. And that is the topology for the
leg. We're going to come in here and
we're going to add in extra loops around
the knee to make sure that it deforms
properly. But for right now, this looks
good. Let's go ahead and let's resize
the arms of our character. I'm just
going to smooth out the edges right here
before I go ahead and start doing that.
So, I'm just holding down shift and
smoothing that one out. Something that
we can also do just to add in an extra
edge look right there just to add to the
topology so that I can better the form
to the surface of our sculpt. So, I'm
just going to hold on shift and zoom
this out. Okay, that looks good. For the
arms, it's going to be the exact same
beam that we did for the legs. You can
select this loop right here. And I can
extrude this one down.
And also from the side, I'll just place
this right here. Scale this down. And
I'll just rotate it right here.
Okay. I'm going to add in a loop cut at
the elbow right there. I'll scale this
on top. Also from the side, I'll make
sure
that it's in the same shape that we have
for our sculpt. Okay, I'm going to add
in some loop cut right here. I can add
in nine loop cuts right there. Can also
come in here. I can add in eight loop
cut. Okay, something like that is going
to work. I'll just add in some more at
bottom here. And I'm going to use the
relax brush. And then I'm just going to
smooth out everything together. And I'll
make sure that this is following the
shape of our sculpt.
Okay. If you see any weird thing
happening like this, so you're trying to
smooth it out and you're seeing this
weird shapes, just go ahead duplicate
and then apply this. Okay. So, hold down
shift and yeah, you're not going to pop
that anymore. I'm just going to hold
down shift and I'm going to simulate the
whole topology on the arm right here.
So just holding down shift and smoothing
out the topology. Something like this.
If I go back into edit mode, you're
going to see that I have on the sculpt I
have this kind of curve on the elbow. So
I'm just going to push this on. I'm
going to use this vertex or this edge. I
can turn on snapping and I'm just going
to make it conform to the shape of that
curve so that we don't lose that shape
on our topology. I'll show you. So, just
like the same way we did, we added more
geometry right here. For the rib cage,
we're going to do the same thing right
here. Okay. So, we can select this.
Just going to make sure to select this.
Okay. Something like this.
Okay. And then Ctrl B. I can bevel this.
And then we don't want this end gun
here. So, we have an end gun right here.
We don't want this end gun. We don't
want this triangle. To get rid of the
end gun, make sure automade is turned
on. And then GG to slide this right
here. We're going to get rid of that end
gun. Also the same thing right here. And
then we don't want this triangle here.
So I'm just going to select this and
Ctrl X to get rid of this triangles. And
then I'm going to use the relax brush.
Then I'm just going to smooth out the
topology right here.
Okay. And now the topology, you still
want to make sure that the loops are
following the shape of our score. So I'm
just going to push this part up. I'm
going to move right here down.
And I'm going to hold down shift and I'm
going to smooth out everything. Okay.
Can also just get rid of this loop right
here of this one. Yeah. Can get rid of
that one. And then just hold on shift
and smooth out so that that area doesn't
get too cluttered. So something like
that looks good for the topology.
Okay. And I'll just make sure that the
topology is still looking good from all
angles. I'm just going to smooth out
these areas right here. I can push these
ones up and hold on shift and I can
smooth them out right here. Okay. Also
right here too. Just make sure that the
topology is looking nice. I hold down
shift. It smooths everything out.
Okay. So that's looking good for the
elbow.
Something like that. I like how that
looks right there. Okay. And now let's
go ahead and let's make those joints
that we pointed out earlier. So we want
to make the loops on the elbow. So I can
select these ones right here just like
we did for the front. I'm going to Ctrl
B to bevel this. Then I'm going to merge
these ones together. Make sure auto
merge is turned on there. Okay. And this
one I'm going to measure it right there.
And if it's not meing, you can just
select this two M and measure at center.
Then I can get rid of this triangle
right here. Okay. I'll go into sculpt
mode. And I'm going to relax the
geometry. If you try to relax geometry,
and it's doing something like this. Once
again, you can come on here, duplicate
the shrink wrap, then you can also apply
the shrink wrap and then you should be
able to smooth out the geometry a lot
more. And I'm just going to make sure
that this is pulling the shape of the
elbow that we sculpted out. I'm just
holding down shift and I'm smoothing out
the topology. Can also just grab this
one to make sure it's following the
shape of the elbow. Okay, something like
that is definitely following the shape
of the elbow. I'm going to smooth out
these areas right here.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like this. And I think that looks
really, really nice.
All right. Yeah, I'm loving how that is
looking. Let's also go ahead and do the
same on the knees right here. So, on the
knees, I can go into my topology
objects. And I'm just going to get rid
of this loop cut for now. I'm going to
select this one. I'm going to turn off
snapping. I'm just going to rotate this
one a little bit just to follow the
curvature of the knee. I can select this
one right here.
and Ctrl B. I can bevel this. Actually,
I'll just select one more here. Ctrl B
to bevel this. I'm going to select this
and GG to slide this in. And that's
going to merge with this other vertex.
GG to slide this one in. I'm going to
select these two and Ctrl X to get rid
of those triangles. And I'll go ahead
duplicate and apply the shrink wrap
modifier. Then I'm going to use the
relax brush. And then just smooth out
the topology so that that conforms to
the shape of the knee a little bit more.
And I'm just going to push this up to
follow the shape of the sculpt a little
bit more. So holding down shift and
smoothing out that topology. Something
like this. I'm also going to push up a
topology right here. I'm just going to
hold down shift. I'm going to smooth out
everything right here.
Okay, this looks good. I might also just
do the same thing at the top right here
just to retain the topology that we have
also at the top. So I'm going to select
this one right here all the way to here.
Yeah. And then Ctrl B to bevel this.
Then I can merge those two together.
Also mesh this one together. I can also
select this and Ctrl X to get rid of the
triangles. And then I'm going to go back
into sculpt mode with the relax light
brush. I'm just going to push this into
place. So I'm going to push this one
down. So all I'm doing here is just to
make it follow the surface or the
curvature of my sculpt. So some of those
details that we added on the sculpt, I
just want to make sure that we still
retain those details on our topologize
mesh. So something like this is going to
be just fine for me. So I'm just pushing
this into shape. holding down shift and
I'll smoon this out.
Thank you. Something like this is going
to work just fine for me. All right. So,
this is the body done. Now, we're going
to go ahead. We're going toize the hands
and we're also going toize the feet for
our character. We can go ahead and we
can merge the body with the head. So,
these two should have the same
modifiers. So it should be completely
fine. So I'm going to select the body
like the body topology and select the
head and then Ctrl G to join those
together. I'll go into edit mode and we
can select these and they should have
the same amount of vertices. So Ctrl E.
You can bridge those edge loops
together. I'm going to go back into SC
mode and I'm just going to use the relax
light brush. Then I'm going to smooth
out the topology right here.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like this. I'm just holding down shift
and I'm smoothing out the topology right
here. Also at the back too, then just
smooth out the topology. Hold on shift
and smooth all of this out. Okay. And
now we have the head and the neck of our
character. We have the head and the body
of our character joined together. Now we
are going to go ahead and we are going
toize the fingers for our characters.
This one we going to go ahead and start
off with a cube. I'm going to make sure
I'm still in my low poly collection.
Shift A mesh and I'm going to go ahead
and add in a cube.
I'm going to go into edit mode and I'm
just going to turn off snapping. Make
sure snapping is turned off. I can also
turn off this auto merge but option for
now. I'm going to turn that off. I'm
just going to scale this down from the
front view and I'm going to move it
right here for the arms or for the
fingers. So, I'm just going to scale
this down here. I'm going to rotate this
to follow the shape of the finger. And
then I'm going to move it to this index
finger right here. Rotate this. I can
press R twice to rotate this. And I'm
going to place this right here. Okay.
So, something like that. From this angle
too, I'm just going to rotate that just
so that it follows the shape of the
finger.
Okay, something like that is looking
good. I'm going to select this that face
at the top there. And I'm just going to
move this right here. Can scale this
down. I'll just place it at the tip of
the finger. Also, this piece right here,
we're not going to need this piece. So,
X. And I can delete that face right
there. I'm just going to select this and
make sure that that's conforming to the
shape of the finger. So, I'm just
rotating that and moving it a little bit
more. I can select these edges and then
just rotate them something like this.
Okay,
now that we have this, I'm going to add
in a loop cut right here. I'm going to
add in two loop cuts right here on the
side. Okay. I'm also going to come in
here and I'm going to add in loops on
the joints. So, where the joint of this
finger is going to be, I'm just going to
come in here and I'm going to add in
loops right there. Okay. And now we have
something that looks like this. We can
definitely go ahead and we can duplicate
this for the other fingers. Okay. I'm
going to duplicate. Shift D to duplicate
this. And we're going to need to rotate
this one to fit the shape of this finger
that we have it on. You might need to
come in here and scale this one down.
Okay. Then we can also just move these
ones to exactly where the joints are
going to be. I'm just going to select
this one. The joint of this finger is
going to be right here. I can also
select this one and move it up right
here. Can also select that one at the
back and move it up to something like
that. I'm going to go ahead L to select
that. And then shift D to duplicate
this. I can scale this one down.
Okay. And then I'm going to select this.
I'm just going to make sure that it's
following the shape of the joint. So I'm
just going to move this onto the joint.
I can select right here. And I can move
it right here. Also from this angle, I'm
just going to select this and I'm going
to rotate it to follow the shape of the
fingers. Also this one, I'm going to
rotate it to follow the shape of the
fingers. Something like that. And for
this one, I can just duplicate it right
here. And I'm going to rotate it to
follow the shape of the fingers. I also
place that right here.
GG to slide this one here. And also GG
to slide this one here. I'll select this
and I'll slide this one backwards a
little bit. Okay, this is looking good
so far. Okay. Now, to better make these
vertics and these edges snap to the
surface of our sculpt, we can make use
of the shrink wrap modifier. I'm just
going to add in the shrink wrap
modifier. I'm going to make sure that
the target is our body sculpt. And now
we have something that looks like that.
Okay, that's going to be fine for now.
And then just before we apply the
transformations of the shrink wrap in
edit mode, I'm going to select this and
I'm also going to duplicate it for the
thumb. So, shift D to duplicate that.
And I'm just going to rotate it and
place it for the thumb right here. So,
on the thumb to thumb, we only have two
joints. So, we can just select this one
and we can delete those vertices. Okay.
And then I'm just going to rotate this
ones into place.
Something like that. I'll make sure that
this one is still on the joint of the
fingers right here. I'll also place this
one right here.
And then I can also place the sword
right here.
Okay. So something like this is going to
be fine. And with the shrink modifier,
you can see what we have. I'm just going
to come here to the object properties
under view port display. I'm going to
turn on wireframe so that I can see the
wireframes a little bit better. I'm
going to go back into actually in object
mode. I'm going to duplicate and I'm
going to apply this. Okay. Now we have
something that looks like this. I'm
going to Now the next thing that we're
going to do is just to come in here and
we're going to snap this vertices
properly to the surface of the finger.
So I'm going to turn on snapping. And
what I want to do these three faces on
the side I want to make sure so these
three faces see if I can just select the
right one. Yeah, these three faces I
want to make sure that they snapped to
the side of each individual finger. So
right here, I can select this one, move
it right here. Select this one, move it
right here. Select this one, move it
right here. And also select this one and
move it right here. That's exactly what
I'm going to go ahead and do for all
these other fingers. So I'm going to do
it on both sides. So on this side, and
also on this other side.
Okay, just to place it right there. And
also the same thing right here.
And then I'm going to place this one
right here.
And then I'm going to place this one
also right here. I'm going to also place
this one on side just like this. And
I'll do the same thing on this other
side.
Okay. And then also the same thing for
the thumb. I'm just going to place this
one right here. And also the same thing
right here. I'm going to place this one
right here. So, what we essentially did
is is we just left two row of pieces at
the top for each of these fingers. And
then we want three on the side. Okay.
Now that we have that in place, we can
go ahead and can start joining these
fingers together. I'm going to select
these two edges right here. So, I'm
going to press A to create a new face
right there. I'm going to select this
edge right here. And I'm going to create
a new face right there. And I'm also
going to create another new piece right
there. Okay. And then I'm just going to
line this up a little bit better. Okay.
Then we have something that looks like
this. I'm also going to do the same
thing right here. I'm going to select
this on F to create a new face. And then
I'm just going to create new faces right
there. And I'm going to line them up.
Something like that. And I'm also going
to do the same thing right here. And
then I can line this one up. Something
more like this.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like this. We're going to need an extra
loop cut right here to make it conform
better to the shape of the sculpt. So,
we can add in a looper right there, a
looper right there, and a loop cut right
here. And I'm just going to make these
ones a little bit straighter on the
fingers. I'm just straighten it out on
the fingers. Okay. Now that we have
something that looks like this, I'm just
going to go into object mode. I'm going
to duplicate and I'm going to apply the
shrink wrap. And what we want to do now
is just to select this loop going around
here. And we're going to extrude that to
somewhere around here. Before we do
that, let's turn off the snapping
option. And then we're going to extrude
this one out. I'm also going to scale it
up. Something like that. I'm going to
scale this one on the Y axis this so
that it doesn't get to the thumb here. S
and Y and can also G and Y and move this
right here. And then I can right click
loop tools and then I can choose the
relax option right here. So that just
going to relax that mesh or that loop
out for us.
Something like that looks good. I'm
going to go ahead and duplicate and
apply the shrink graph modifier.
Something like that. And definitely
we're going to need some more loop cut
right here. So let's just go ahead. I'm
going to add in a couple more loop. I
can add in three loop coats right here.
And I'm just going to go ahead duplicate
and apply the shrink grab bar. Now we
have something that looks like this. I'm
going to line this one up with the
knuckles a bit more. So just lining this
up with the shape of the knuckles that I
sculpted out. Something like this.
Okay. And also same thing here. Just
going to move these ones back a little
bit and then just clean up the geometry
a little bit more. Also right here you
can see this line that we sculpted on
the hand. I'm just going to use these
loops and I'll just make those line up
with that edge that we sculpted out.
Okay. so that we retain the forms of the
sculpt. So something like this is going
to be just fine.
Okay. And now we have something that
looks like this. I'm just going to
select this right click loop tools and
I'm going to relax this one. So I'm
going to add in I can come here and add
in another extra edge loop. Then I can
just select this GG and then just slide
this one in and also slide this one out.
Okay. Now, one thing I want to keep in
mind, if I select these loops right
here, you can see that we have 34
vertices. But if I come back to the arm
right here, you can see that we only
have 20 vertices. So, 34 and 20, the
difference is a bit much. So, we're
going to need to reduce the number of
faces coming out of the fingers here or
coming out from these loops here so that
we be able to easily join this all
together. And a simple way that we can
use to do that is just to collapse. So
this edge right here, we're going to
collapse it with this middle one right
here. So we can just select this. I'm
going to turn on auto merge right now.
I'm going to select that, merge this one
right here. Select this one and merge it
right here. Also the same thing right
here. So we're just going to merge these
ones. And also the same thing right
here. I select just this ones and slide
it here. We don't want triangles. So,
I'm just going to select this edit and
Ctrl X to get rid of those. Okay, we can
go into sculpt mode. I'm going to
duplicate and apply the shrap modifier
and I'm just going to use the relax
light brush and then I'm going to smooth
out everything. Okay, now we have
topology that looks like that. We're
also going to do the same thing at the
bottom. I'm going to select these ones
right here. So, select these two and G
to slide those ones in. Okay. Can also
do the same thing right here. GG to
slide this on in.
And also the same thing right here. GG
to slide this on in. Just like we had on
the top. I'm going to select this and
Ctrl X to get rid of those triangles
right there. I'm going to just hold down
shift and smooth out the topology that
we have right there. Okay. Now we have
something that looks like this. Okay. I
can also just smooth out the topology
and it here.
Okay. And now if I select this, we have
22 and on the hand we had 20. So it's
going to be definitely much easier to
fill those in. Okay. Now to continue on
with the topology of the hand and just
make sure I have that selected. I'll go
into edit mode. And these three faces on
the side here, these three faces that we
had on the side of each of the fingers,
we want to go ahead and connect them to
the ones that we had on the thumbs. So,
what we want to do is just create edges
going like this that going to connect
those edge loops. So, I'm just going to
clean this and I can select right here
and I can create a new piece right
there. And I'm just going to move this
and then I can create a new piece right
there. And also another new face right
there. So now we have these three edges
connected for all the fingers.
That looks good. We can also connect
these two edges that we have right here.
We can connect them with these two that
we have on the thumb. So I'm just going
to select this edge right here. F to
fill that in and also F to fill this in.
And then if you select that, we have
been able to connect those edges that we
have on the thumb and also on the index
finger. And from this point on, the
topology for the hand is actually very
very simple. All you can do at this
point is just select everything right
here. I'm going to make sure stamping is
turned off.
And then I'm just going to extrude this
right here. Something like this. And
then we can just scale that to fit the
shape of the hand. And I'm just going to
place it somewhere around here. I'm not
going to take it all the way here just
right now. I'm going to place it
somewhere around here. And I can select
this ones. I can just rotate them a
little bit. I can also select this one
and rotate it a little bit. So now we
have something that looks like this. I'm
going to go ahead and duplicate and
apply the shrink wrap modifier. Now we
have something that looks like this. For
this loop right here, we can add in an
extra edge loop right here so that this
face is not too stretched. So we can add
in an extra edge loop right there. And
then we can also make sure that these
loops are following the shape of the the
shape that we have on the sculpt of the
thumb. So this first part right here,
I'm just going to push this ones to the
other side. I'm just going to make sure
that this shape is following what we had
on our sculpt. You can add in some more
lucas right here. I'm going to add in
four lucas right there. And right here,
I'm just going to make sure that this is
following the shape that we had on our
sculpt. So, something like this.
Can just place this right here. I'm
going to turn snapping back on. And then
I'm just going to move this right here.
And I'm just going to place this. So,
I'm just lining this up a little bit
better.
Okay. We can definitely go into sports
mode and we can use the relax brush to
help us out. So I'm just going to smooth
out the topology right here. So hold
down shift and I'm going to smooth out
the topology. Something like that. So
you can see the way this loops here are
following the shape of the thumb or the
curvature of the first part of the
thumb. Okay. I'm going to hold down
shift here and smooth this out. And then
I'm also going to hold down shift here
and then just smooth this out. Something
like that. You can also smooth out the
geometry right here.
Okay. And now we have something that
looks just like this. Okay. I'm going to
go ahead and duplicate and apply the
shrink modifier. And if I select this
edge right here, you can see we have 26
vertes. Remember, we had only 20 right
here. So now we need to reduce the
amount of topology coming from the hand
right here into this other part of the
rest of the body. So something that we
can do right here, if you remember this
edge that we added in, what we can
actually do is just to connect this one
back on itself. So that reduces the
number of polygons that we have coming
out from the arm. So I'm just going to
erase this and I can select these two
right here.
I'm going to rotate them and place them
just something like this. Also the same
thing, I'm going to make sure I have the
same edge loop selected here. Select
these two edges and I'm just going to
rotate them. Something like this. Okay.
I can select this edge here. So, this
edge here and this edge. This edge here.
I can F to create a new face right
there. Can also select this edge. F to
create a new face. And we're going to
need one 2 3 four L cut. So, Ctrl Ring
four cuts right there. And then we can
merge these zones together. So, I'm just
going to select M the major center.
Select those two and we can press shift
R to replace our action. Also do the
same thing right there. And also the
same thing right there. And now if I
select this, we have been able to reduce
that from 26 down to 22. We still need
to remove two more bes to be able to
connect them together. But that's fine.
Before I do that, I'm just going to go
back into sculpt mode. I'm going to use
the relax light brush and I'm going to
smooth all of this out.
So, just holding down shift and I'm
going to smooth all of this out. And
then I'm just going to move this
something just to follow the shape of
the of this part of the sculpt a little
bit more. Okay, something like that is
going to look good. I can adjust this a
little bit more. And now to further
remove some vertices. Remember these
three faces that we had on the side of
each of the fingers, we can come in
right here. And I can just bring push
this one down. And I can with this edge
selected, F to create a new face there.
And just like that, we have gotten rid
of those two vertices. So if I select
this, now we have 20 there. And if you
remember, we also had 20 right here. So
it's going to be easy enough to connect
those together. So, I'm just going to
select the hand right here. And before
we connect those together, let's work on
the fingers a little bit more. Okay. I'm
going to just go into sculpt mode. I'm
going to hold down shift and smooth this
out. And now, let's work on the fingers.
For the fingers, we can add in three
loop cuts right here. Also, three loop
cuts right here. Three loop cuts right
here. And another three loop cut right
here. I also do the same thing right
here. I add in three loop cuts right
there. I'm going to add in three loop
cuts right there. For this part of the
finger here, I'm just going to add in a
loop cut here. I can turn off snapping.
I'll just Ctrl Z. I'll add in a loop
right there. Make sure snapping is
turned off. And I can just scale this
up. So, I'm just going to place this one
where the fingernail is going to be.
Also, the same thing right here. I'm
going to scale this one up. I click and
add in a looper right there. And I'll
add in another look right there. I can
scale this one up. And I'm just going to
add in one lucot right there. Okay. Now
for the joints on the fingers, you want
to make sure that the fingers bend
really nicely when it starts to bend. So
these two faces at the top here, we can
beble this with Ctrl B. Okay. And then
I'm going to turn on auto edge. I'm
going to select this vertx right here.
And GG to slide that one down here. And
GG to slide that one down here. And we
can get rid of these edges right here.
Then we can go back into sculpt mode and
then just smooth that out. If you have
any weird smoothing like this, you can
just go ahead duplicate and apply the
shra modifier and I'm just going to hold
down shift and I'm going to smooth that
out. So this is the topology that we
want for each of these finger joints. So
I'm just going to go ahead. I'm going to
select all the finger joints. Okay. And
this one. And I'm also going to select
these ones right here.
Select these ones for these fingers. And
also, okay, these ones I can see is not
lined up properly. So, I'm just going to
leave that one for now. I'm going to
Ctrl B to bevel this.
Okay. And I'm just going to come in
here. Git slide this one down here. Git.
Slide this on here. And I'm just going
to slide this on here so that we don't
have any angons on our mesh. Slide these
ones down.
Also the same thing right here.
And make sure we do the same thing right
here so that we don't have any end guns.
And we can select these edges right
here.
Ctrl X to dissolve those edges. And also
the same thing right here.
and X. And we're going to dissolve those
edges right there. Okay. I'm going to go
into sc mode. I'm going to use the relax
brush. Then I'm just going to smooth out
the whole topology so that we have
something that looks nice for the
joints.
Okay.
So, I'm just holding down shift and I'm
smoothing these out. I have so this
character has deformed the finger still
looks nice. The finger deformation still
looks good. Okay. So I'm just going to
shift this one back or no this one. I'm
going to move it forward. Then I can
select this one and then Ctrl B to bevel
that. Then I'm just going to select this
one.
Ctrl X to dissolve these edges. Okay.
And then I'm going to relax this out.
I'm going to duplicate and apply the
shrink modifier.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like that. I'll just make sure that this
one is actually on the joints right
there. Okay, I just hold down shift and
I'm going to smooth everything out.
Okay, I'm just going to line some of
these up a little bit more. I can come
in here and just add in some more loop
cuts at the fingers so that we actually
have some more topology going around the
fingers. So when it starts to deform, it
actually deforms really nicely. Can also
add in a loop cut going right here. And
I'm just going to hold down shift and
I'm going to smooth all of this out a
little bit more.
Also the same thing at the bottom here.
holding down shift and just smoothing
this out.
Okay, I like how that is looking. I like
what that's looking like. And let's also
go ahead and do the same thing for the
thumb. I'm going to add in some more
loop cuts right here. So, I just added
in three loop cuts. I'm going to add in
one right here where the finger nail
starts. And I'm going to add in another
one right here. And I can just scale
these ones up. I'm going to select this,
Ctrl B to bevel this. and Git slide this
one in. And also GG slide this one in.
I'm just going to select this Ctrl X to
dissolve that. I'm going to go back into
sculpt mode. I'm going to duplicate and
I'm going to apply the shrink wrap
modifier and I'm just going to smooth
out the geometry right here. Okay. So,
this is the geometry that we have for
the thumb. And now we are going to go
ahead and we are going to finish off the
topology for the tip of the finger.
right here. I'm going to add two loop
cuts right there. I'm just going ahead
and adding in two loop cuts for each of
these fingers right there. I'm going to
duplicate and apply the shrink modifier.
And now we have something that looks
like this. And just to retain the shape
of the area of this around this finger
here, I'm just going to move this to
follow the shape. I can select this one
and insert it. Something like this. Then
I can just place this right here. So, I
don't have fingernails for this
character. If you had fingernails for
this character, you would use this exact
same steps, but just line this up to
follow the fingernails. And if you had
fingernails, you probably also want to
add in one loop cut probably somewhere
around there so that I can follow the
shape of the fingernails a little bit
more. But for me, I don't have
fingernails. I'm just going to place
this somewhere around here.
Okay. And I'll also do the same for all
of these other fingers. So just moving
this to the side and I can select these
faces here and insert them. And I'm
going to place them appropriately on the
fingers.
Do the same thing right here. You can
move these ones to the side of the
finger. I can select this and I to
insert them. I'm going to place it right
here.
Okay. And you also probably want to turn
up auto merge at this point so that
these vertes don't merge right here. So
mine merged. I'm just going to select
this X. And I'm going to delete these
faces. And I'll just reconstruct them
back again. So I can select this vertex
right here. F to create a new face
there. Also the same thing there. F to
create another new face. And I'm going
to fill this one in right here. I'm just
going to make this match the topology of
the finger or the shape of the finger a
little bit more. Okay, something like
that looks good. And I'm just going to
keep on adjusting this. I'm going to
select this eye, insert this, and I'll
turn on snap in. I'll just move this
into place.
So now we have something that looks like
this for the fingers. I also go ahead
and do the same thing on the thumb. I'm
going to add in two loops right here.
Okay. And I'm just going to push this
one to the side. I'm going to select
these I to insert this one here. And I'm
just going to make this one follow the
shape of our sculpt. Something like
that. I'm going to duplicate and apply
the shrink wrap modifier. And now we
have something that looks like this.
Okay. And this looks good. I'm going to
go ahead into scul mode and I'm going to
use the relax light brush. And then I'm
just going to smooth out the topology on
the rest of the fingers.
Okay.
And now we have something that looks
like this.
Okay. And these are the fingers done
right now. So this is the finger done
for this character. and can go ahead and
merge this together. So I'm going to
select the cube and it's also going to
select the plane. Ctrl G to join them
together and they should have the same
modifier. So everything should be fine.
I'm going to go back into edit mode and
select these ones and also select these
ones. Ctrl E and it should be able to
bridge the edge groups right here.
Remember we said we want loops around
the wrist. So I'm just going to add in
two loop cuts right there. And I'm going
to hold down shift. I'm just going to
smooth all of this out. So, holding down
shift, I'm going to smooth all of this
out.
Right here,
I can just add in some more loop cuts
right here just to have some more even
spread out topology. Something more like
this.
Okay, so this is how youize the hands.
We're going to use the exact same
techniques for the tools is probably is
mostly the exact same thing. I'll just
show you how we're going to do it. So,
we're going to start off once again with
a cube. So, shift a mesh. I'm going to
add in a cube right there. I'm going to
turn off snapping. I'm going to go into
edit mode. I'll scale this one down.
I'll move it to the front and I'll just
place it where the tools are going to
be. And I'll move that right here. Okay,
I'm going to focus in on this. I can
just press period on the numpad to just
focus on this. And I can select this.
I'm going to rotate this. Something like
this. I'll just place it to follow the
shape of the toe. Something like this.
Okay. So, this was the initial starting
point that we had for the fingers. This
loops or this fish right here, we can
delete that one. We don't need it. So,
X. And I'm going to delete that fish
right there. And I'm just going to
select this one. and place it in the
appropriate spot. Okay, I'm going to add
in a loop cut in the middle right here.
And I'm going to add in and I'm going to
add in two loop cuts right there for the
two. All right, this one is going to
look good. I'm just going to go ahead
select all of these and I'm going to
duplicate this for this other tool. So,
I'm going to scale this part down. I can
select this and move this out. Then I'll
do the same thing for the other tools.
I'm just going to duplicate this and
scale this one down. Also the same thing
right here. Scale this one down for this
two. And also the same thing right here.
You can scale this one down for this two
right here. I'm just going to place this
one SZ. I'll scale this up. Also the
same thing right here. SZ and scale this
one up. And the same thing for all these
other tools.
SZ. I'm going to scale this one up right
here. And now we have something that
looks like this. We can go ahead and we
can add in a shrink modifier. I'm going
to add in a shrink modifier. Also, I'm
going to go up to the object properties.
I'm going to go to the viewport display
and I'm going to turn on wireframe so I
see the wireframes a little bit clearly.
And for our shrink wrap modifier, we can
select the targets as the body sculpt.
And we're going to have something that
looks like this. This is going to be
completely fine for now. We still going
to come back in and clean up the
topology around the tool. So, I'm just
going to duplicate and apply this right
now. And just like we did for the tools,
I'm going to turn on snapping. And we
just want those three edges or those
three faces right there to be on the
side of the tool. So, we want these
three faces to be on the side of the
toe. So, I'm just going to place this in
the correct spot. So, somewhere around
there should be fine. Also do the same
thing for each of these other toes.
The same thing for this big toe. And I'm
just going to place it right there. And
also the same thing right here for this
two. I'm not bothered about the top one
for now. I'm just going to leave that
one as it is. I'm going to place these
ones on the side a little bit more.
Okay.
And also the same thing right here.
And I'll place this one for this two.
And also the same thing right here.
Okay. So we want three on this side.
Okay. This is going to be fine for now.
And just like we did for the fingers,
you can select these two edges and we
can create new faces right there. And
I'm just going to line these ones up a
little bit better. The same thing right
here. Create a new face right there. And
line them up a little bit better.
Okay.
And I'll do the same thing right here.
And I can line these ones up a little
bit better.
Something like this. And also the same
thing right here. And I'm going to line
this a little bit better.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like this. If you remember what we did
on the fingers, we added in an extra
loop cut right in the middle just so
that that can conform to the shape of
the sculpt a little bit better. Okay,
now that we have that, we can select
this loop going around here. I'm going
to turn off snapping and I'm just going
to extrude this one back so we have
something that looks like this. Okay,
I'm going to make use of the shrink wrap
modifier to help us just snap these
faces. So, I'm going to go back into
object mode. I'm going to duplicate and
I'm going to apply some. And I'm going
to also right click loop tools and I'm
going to relax this. I'm just going to
press shift R to repeat my action a
couple of times. And now we have
something that looks like this. I'm
going to move this one to something
somewhere around here.
I'm going to also come in here and I'm
going to add in some more loop cuts. So,
I'm going to add in four loop cuts right
here. And what we want to do just like
the same thing, the exact same thing
that we did for the fingers. We going to
collapse some of these edges. So, right
now we have 42 vertices coming out of
here. So, we just want to collapse it so
that not this much vertices are coming
out from the leg. I can select these two
edges. So, we're going to be collapsing
them to this vertx or this edge in the
middle. So, I can select these two
edits. I'll turn on auto mage. And then
I'm just going to merge this one
together. I'll do the same thing right
here.
And I'll also do the same thing right
here.
Okay. I'll do the same thing right here.
And we don't want this triangles here.
So, I'm just going to select these ones.
Make sure I have the right thing
selected. And Ctrl X to dissolve this.
I'm going to go ahead and duplicate and
apply the sh modifier. And I'm just
going to hold down shift and I'm going
to smooth this out. And also just push
this to line up with the shape of our
topology or of our sculpt a little bit
more. I'm going to bring this out.
Hold down shift and I'm going to smooth
this out. I'll just push this into place
so that we have something that looks
like this. I also go ahead and do the
same thing at the bottom. I'm going to
select these two edges here. GG to slide
them.
And the same thing right here.
And then the same thing right here.
And then I'm going to select these ones
and then Ctrl X to dissolve those. Okay.
I'm going to use the relax brush. Then
I'm going to smooth out the topology a
little bit more. So, we have something
that looks like this.
Okay. And I'm just pushing the topology
into place. Something that looks more
more optimal for the legs. And now we
have something that looks like this. And
this looks really nice. And for the
legs, we can just select this. I'm going
to go from the side view. I'm just going
to extrude these two right here. I can s
Y and zero to scale this on the Y axis.
I can scale this up or I can just rotate
it to somewhere around here to something
like this. We also want to scale it down
from the X-axis. And I'm just going to
scale it down something like this.
Okay. And now we have this for the tool.
I'm going to duplicate. I'm going to
apply the shrink modifier. And just the
exact same thing that we did for the
fingers. These loops going around here.
I'm going to connect them to themselves.
So, I'm just going to take them and just
increase the opacity of this. I'm just
going to take them all the way to the
back of the heel. And then we are going
to connect them on themselves right
here. I'm just going to move these ones
down a little bit. So, just push them
down a little bit more. Okay. Let me
just clean this. And we're going to go
ahead and we're going to extrude these
edges. Okay. So, one, two, three right
here. I can select this and I can just
extrude going all the way to the back.
I'm just going to extrude. And I'm not
bothered about the number that I'm
extruding. I'm just extruding until I
get to right here. I'll make sure I
still have the same loops.
Okay. So, right here, you can select
these two and fill this in. And then we
can also fill up this one. And then I'm
just going to push some of this down a
little bit so that we can create some
space right there.
Okay. So now we have something that
looks like this. I'm going to add in
some more loopers right here. I'm just
subdividing this a little bit more.
Okay. And now we have something that
looks like this. We can definitely go
ahead. We can add in more look cuts
here. I'm just going to add in five loop
cuts right there for the shape of the
feet. Okay. So right here I'm going to
select this and I can see I have an odd
number of vertices
selected. So I can add in an extra loop
right here so that we can easily fill
this one in. So I'm just going to select
right here. So just going to select this
blue here. E and S to fill this one in.
Then you can create a new face. A new
face right there. If I select that edge
and press F, I'm going to create a new
face there. Also the same thing right
here. I'm going to create a new face
right there. And just before I continue,
I'm going to go ahead and duplicate and
apply the shrink modifier just so that
this looks a little bit more uniform.
Can also select this and right click
loose. And then I can just relax this
out a little bit more. So we have
something that looks like this. I'm
going to go ahead E and S S to scale
this in. Extrude and scale this in a
little bit more. I can create a new face
there. And I can do that once again.
E and S. I can just create new faces
right here. Okay. So I'm going to select
this one coming out. So I'm just
referencing it with this. This is the
edge in the middle of the tool. So I can
select this edge right here. I can merge
it with this one. So F to create a new
there. Also F to create another new
there. Can create one more on the side.
F to create another new face. and also F
to create another new face. We can add
in a loop right here. Then we can merge
these ones at center. Okay, we can add
in another loop cut here. We're going to
merge these ones at center. We're also
going to merge these ones together.
We're going to mesh this one together.
And we're going to mesh this one
together. So, let's just go ahead. I'm
going to select this one. M and merge at
center. Also, the same thing here. Shift
R to repeat my action. Now, also do the
same thing on this other side. And just
like that, we have been able to fill in
the bottom of the feet. So, I'm just
going to go back into sculpt mode. I'm
going to use the relax light brush. And
then I'm just going to smooth this out.
So, just holding down shift and then
I'll smoon this out. So, just holding
down shift and smoon this out.
Okay. Now, I have something that looks
like this. Okay. I'm going to select
right here. And I have 26 vertes. Let's
see how many that we had here. So we
had, if I just select this one, we had
22 vertices here. So we're going to get
we're going to need to get rid of some
of the vertices that we have here. And
to do that, we can just select these
loops. So right here. So I just selected
from right here going all the way to
here. And I'm going to turn off snapping
for this one. I'm going to extrude this
up once. And if I create a new face
right there and I also create a new face
right there. You have been able to
reduce that from 26 to 24. Can do that
one more time. I'm just going to select
it right here. I'm going to extrude this
one up and I can create a new face right
there. And now we have 22. And I believe
that's the same number. Yeah, that's the
same number that we have on the legs. So
it's going to be easy enough to join
those together. For the ankles, don't
worry about the ankles for now. I'm
going to show you a very simple way of
retaining the shape with our topology.
Let's just come back to the tools for a
little bit. So, right here, I'm going to
add in a loop right there. I'm just
going to add in two loop cuts right
there. So, I'm going to add in a loop
right there. Those don't deform as much.
So, I'm just I'm not going to pay much
attention to them. I'm just going to add
loop cuts right here. So, I'm just going
to add in two loop cuts here. Going to
add in one right here. Adding two loop
cuts right there. Adding one right
there. Adding two loop cuts. Also adding
one right here. And add in two loop
cuts. I'll go ahead and duplicate and
apply addition gra modifier. And I'll
just add in a loop cut right here. And
I'll go into score mode. I'm going to
hold out shift. I'm just going to smooth
all of this out.
Okay. Console at the bottom. I'm going
to zoom this out.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like this. I'm going to hold down shift
and I'm going to smooth out everything.
All right, with this in place, we can go
ahead and we can merge the fit topology
with the rest of the body. So, I can
just select these two and then Ctrl G to
join them together. And I'll go into
edit mode. I can select this loops here.
Also select this loops right here. I'll
just make sure it's just these two that
are selected. And then Ctrl E. We can
bridge this edge loop together. And Ctrl
R. We can add in like two loops right
there. Then we can go in and just hold
down shift and smooth out the whole
topology.
Okay. Now we have something that looks
like this for the legs. And to retain
the shape around the ankles, I'm just
going to select this. I'm just going to
make sure that's matching the shape of
the ankles. Something like this. I'm
going to select this and then Ctrl B to
bevel these ones. And I'm just going to
merge these like so. And with this, we
can select this. Ctrl X. Get rid of
those triangles. Then I'm going to
smooth out this area right here. And I'm
just going to push down the shape of the
topology. I'm going to duplicate and
apply the shrink gra modifier. I'm just
going to smooth out right here. You can
see how that's retaining the shape of
the ankles right here. Okay, that looks
really nice. I'm going to go ahead and
do the same thing right here. I'm going
to select these ones
and then I can bevel that. I'm going to
beble that right here. GG. I'm going to
slide this right here. I'm also going to
slide this one. And then we're going to
get rid of these edges. Ctrl X to get
rid of the edges right there. I'm just
going to hold down shift. I'm going to
smooth out everything. And that's going
to retain the shape of the ankles. I'm
going to duplicate and apply the shrink
modifier. And I'm just going to smooth
all of these out. And make sure that
that's following the shape of the ankles
right there.
So I'm just going to smooth out the
whole topology for the rest of the body.
Okay. Right here we have the topology of
the body in place. I'm just holding out
shift and I'm smoothing out everything.
So so far we have been able to reabize
the whole body. So now we're just going
to go ahead and we are going to do some
clean up around some of the areas of the
face. So, right here on the mouth, I'm
going to come in here and I'm just going
to select this edges here and I'm just
going to scale them down. I'm going to
push them closer to the corner of the
mouth. I'm going to turn on snapping for
this. I'll just push this ones closer to
the corner of the mouth. I'm going to
Ctrl + Z. I'll turn off auto merge that
that doesn't match. I'm just going to
push this ones closer. Something like
that. We can add in an extra edge loop
right here just to retain the shapes of
the mouth a little bit more. So
something like that.
Okay. And also right here on the eyes,
we can add in an extra edge loop here.
So this face is getting too stretched.
So I can add in an extra edge loop right
here. And another extra edge loop right
there. I'm going to go into sculpt mode.
I'm going to use the relax light brush.
I'm just going to relax this together.
Just going to relax the topology right
here. Can hold down shift and smooth out
the topology.
Okay. right here. For the eyes, we are
going to need some more look cuts. So
when the eye starts to close, we are
going to be able to the topology is
going to be able to support the closing
of the eye. So I'm going to go into edit
mode. I'm going to add in a loop right
here and another loop cut right here. Uh
something like this should be able to
support the closing of the eye. I might
just shift this one here. And I'll just
add in one more loop cut right there. so
that once we start closing the eye, it's
going to close a little bit properly.
Okay, I'll go into sculpt mode and I'll
just smooth out the topology a little
bit. I'm just smoothing out the topology
around the eyes, making sure that
everything looks good.
Okay, I'm going to hold down shift and
smooth out everything. Okay, and this is
definitely going to look good for the
shape of our topology. So I'm just going
ahead and I'm going around the whole
character and I'm cleaning up the
topology. Now that we're cleaning up the
topology, we can just apply the mirror
modifier. I'll make sure X symmetry is
turned on so that these loops in the
middle right here, we can actually just
smooth over those. Okay. Also do the
same thing on the face.
And also right here, just going to
smooth out the topology in the middle.
Hold down shift and I'm going to smooth
this out.
Okay.
So, something like that. We're just
smoothing out the topology around our
whole character. I'm just going to push
this ones in a little bit more. I'm
going to smooth out the topology right
here.
Hold down shift and smooth this out. And
I'll just also hold down shift. I'm
going to smooth all of this out.
All right. Here. Uh this is looking good
so far for the topology of our
character. Now that we have topologized
the body, the hands and the feet, we are
going to go ahead and we are going to
model the eye cavity for our character.
Okay. So to do that, I'm just going to
select our mesh right here. I'm going to
apply the shrink wrap modifier and I'm
going to add back in our mirror
modifier. For this, we can use the auto
mirror. So, I'll just go to the edit and
then I'm going to use the auto mirror.
And then we should have the mirror
modifier automatically added. And now
for the eye cavity, I'm just going to
select this E and S to scale this in.
So, something like this. And we're just
going to determine the thickness for the
eye. I'm going to actually hide the eye
eyes here. I don't want to I don't need
to see that one. I'm going to hide it
right there. I can also hide the body
right there. I'm just going to determine
the thickness. I can GG to move this
back. And you can press C to move it
back past this boundary. So somewhere
around here is going to be fine.
Something like this. I can scale this up
a little bit more. And then just move
this back. I'll make sure to turn off
snapping. And I'm just going to move
this back. And I'm also going to move
this one to the side. Okay. So now I
have thickness like that for the
eyelashes. I'm going to select this one
and I'm just going to GG to slide this
on. So I just want even thickness around
the whole eyelid. So something like that
is going to look good for me. Okay, I'll
push this one in a little bit more.
And I'll also push this one in a little
bit more. All right, for the eye cavity,
what we can do is just to select that
edge right there. E and S to scale this
up. And then from the top view, I'm just
going to push this in. Something like
this. So, it might be a little bit
difficult to see this. Let's just go
ahead and I'm going to Ctrl plus to
select that. And I'll select it
somewhere around there. And then shift H
to hide every other thing so that it's
not too difficult to see the eye cavity.
I'm just going to place it somewhere
something like this. S and Z. I can
scale this one up.
Okay. And then I'm just going to round
out the eye cavity a little bit more.
Instead of it having the shape of the
eye, I'm just going to round it out a
little bit more.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like this. I can also just select this
and I can right click loop tools and I
can relax this one out a little bit
more. Okay. And something like this is
definitely looking good. I'm going to
come in here and I'm going to add in a
low cut right here. And alt s I'm just
going to scale this out just a little
bit more. So something like that. I just
scaled it up a little bit more with alt
s. Then I'm going to come in here. I'm
going to add in a lucer right here. I'm
also going to add in another looper
right here. I'm going to select those
two edges. And I'm just going to alt s
to scale that up just a little bit more.
And now we have that thickness around
the eyelids. And this is how I like to
model the eye cavity. Can also just add
in another look right here. Okay. So
this is going to be all for the eye
cavity.
I'm going to alt H to hide this. I'm
going to toggle off X-ray. Now we have
the eye cavity. And the next thing we're
going to go ahead and do is going to
model in the mouth cavity. I'm going to
select this one right here. Ctrl + to
select this. So I'm just going to Ctrl +
to select this and then shift H. I'm
going to hide all of this. I'm going to
select this one. I'll go from the top
right here. And I'm just going to
extrude this backwards on the Y axis.
And then I'm going to extrude that on
the Y axis. Once again, I'm going to
scale this up. I'll move it to the side.
So on the X axis and then S and Y, I can
just scale this on the Y axis a little
bit more. And now we have something that
looks like this. I'm going to select
this. I'm just going to move these ones
up. I'm going to start bringing this
ones down. I can select this and move
this up. And actually, now that we're
doing this, we can actually turn off a
topology option so that it doesn't get
too confusing. So, I'll go up here to
the mesh edit mode overlays. I'll turn
off the topology option. And then I'm
just going to move this up
right here. And I'm also going to move
these ones down. So, we're going to
start making that opening for the mount.
So right here, if I take a look at is
from the front view, you can see how we
can see into the mouth. So we don't want
to be able to see that. So I'm just
going to select these edges right here.
So these ones right here. And I can move
these ones down.
Something like that. So that that
overlaps itself and so that we don't see
that opening through the mouth. Can also
select these ones. Then I can bring them
up. So something like that. Then I can
select these loops right here and GG to
just move them this way and can also
just slide these ones this way. So
something like this is going to be just
fine. Okay. So now if we take a look at
it from the front, we don't see through
the mouth. That's exactly what we want.
I'm going to select this ones. And for
the mouth cavity, we just want something
like this. I'm going to H to unhide so
that I can see the other parts of my
character. And with the annotation tool,
we just want something that looks like
this for the mouth cavity.
So this going this is what it's going to
look like from the side view. And then
from the top view, we want something
that looks like this. Okay. And now with
this, I'm going to go ahead. I'm just
going to select those loops once again.
I'm going to go back into the edge
selection mode. Ctrl plus to select
more. And then shift H to hide this one.
I'm going to select this
S and Z to scale this up and I'll place
it right there. Okay. And then I'm just
going to extrude this one all the way to
the back. S and Y and zero to scale that
on the Y axis and S and Z. I'm going to
scale this up.
Okay.
Something like that. And I also want to
round this out a little bit more. So,
I'm just going to right click, loop
tools, and I'm going to relax this one
out. I'm just holding down shift arrow
to relax the topology. I'm holding out
shift arrow to repeat my previous
action. And then if I come from the side
and add in a loop right here, I can
scale this up to fit an addition
drawing. So, something like that. And
also scale this up. And I'm going to
extrude this one to the back. You can
scale this one in.
I can extrude this to the back. Scale
this in. Okay. I'll just move this one
also. Also from the sides, I can extrude
this one down. Something like this. And
just one more time. Right here. I'm
going to add in some more luc right here
just to get to better get the shape of
the mouth cavity.
Okay. I'm going to add in a ler right
there. And I'm going to add in another
loop cut right here. I'm going to slide
this one back.
And now I have something that looks like
this.
Okay, nice. Now from the topless fix of
the shape, I'm going to go into sculpt
mode. I'm just going to use the grab
brush. I'm just going to push this one
into shape. I can hold down shift and
then just smooth all of this out. Can
also use the relax brush and then smooth
out the topology right here.
Okay. So, I'm just holding down shift
and I'm smoothing out the topology. Can
use the grab brush, hold down shift, and
also smooth out the topology right here.
Okay. And now I have something that
looks like this for the mouse cavity.
And I can just actually select all of
this. Ctrl + to select this. And I can
go into the vertx selection mode. Right
click. I can smooth out these vertices.
Okay. We can also go into sculpt mode.
We can make use of the inflate brush and
we can inflate this. But you're going to
notice if we inflate this, it's actually
going to be deflating. And that's
because these faces are inverted. So the
normals are actually facing the other
side, which is actually how we want it
to face. So that is correct. So I'm just
going to hold down control so that we
can actually inflate this one up. I'm
going to inflate right here. So right
here is where the tit is going to be.
That's going to inflate right here. I
can smooth out right here with the grab
brush. Okay, I'm going to switch back to
the infade blush brush. Hold down
control and then just inflate this out.
And now we have something that looks
like this. So this is going to be the
mouth cavity. Something like this. You
can always still come back to adjust
this once we add in the teeth and the
tongue. We might still need to come back
in here and adjust this, but for right
now, this is fine. I'm going to erase
all of these.
Okay. And alt H to bring back the rest
of our character. And I'm going to make
sure that it's not clipping through the
character from the side. So, right now,
this is looking really nice. So, if I
just illustrate this right here, if I
just select these faces and I use the
proportional editing and I just bring
this down. I'm going to scroll down on
my mouse wheel and then I'm just going
to bring this right here. So, if I open
the mouth, let's say this character was
going to be deformed, you're going to
see that we still have something showing
inside of the mouth so that it's not
just blank. And then our teeth, the
teeth and the tongue is going to sit
right inside of there. Okay. And now we
have added in the eye cavity and the
mouth cavity. I'm going to go ahead and
I'm going to shade this one smooth and
see what that looks like. Okay. So now
we have the topology for our character.
Something that looks like this. And next
step what we need to go ahead and do is
to add in the eyeballs, the teeth, and
the tongue for our character. And what
we want to do right now is to make use
of assets. And I'm going to show you
where you can download this assets from.
So right now, if you go to blender.org/d
download/opiles,
you're going to come here. You're going
to see the human bees. Depending on when
you're watching this video, the versions
might be different, but just go ahead
and download that. It's going to bring
you to a page like this, and your
download should automatically start. So
right here, my download has
automatically started. I'm just going to
close this cuz I already have it
downloaded right there. And I'll go to
the file explorer right here. I'm going
to right click and we're going to
extract this zipped file. Okay. And I'll
go into that folder and I'm going to
open the Blender file inside of that
folder. So I'm just going to go ahead
and I'm going to open that up right
there. And then we should have something
that looks like this. I'm going to go to
the overview workspace. So we can
actually see these instructions right
here. I'm going to explain what all of
these means. So we need to install this
asset bundle onto our computer. So we're
going to go up to edit. We're going to
go to preferences. And under file parts,
we're going to add in a new asset
library. We're going to click the plus
button right here. And this one we can
save it to where we save all our
projects, all our scopes. I'm just going
to go to where I save all my scopes. I'm
going to create a new folder and we can
call this one human be meshes right
here. Actually, make sure I have the
spelling right. Okay, I'll go into that
folder and I'm going to select add asset
library and the import method we want to
change is to append. Okay, let's come
down here and let's make sure we save
the preferences from right here. I'm
going to close out of this. And right
here where it says cop copy bundle to
asset library. We're just going to click
down on that and we are going to choose
the human business right there. And we
are going to copy that to the asset
library. And now if we come down here,
we should see that inside the asset
library right here. All right, let's go
ahead and let's just close out of this
file. We're going to go back to our
script. If we come down here and we
split up the viewport and we go to the
asset browser under where it says all
libraries, we should see the human bees
here. If you don't see this, you can
just come here, close your file, and
then you can open it up once again so
that you able to see those asset
libraries. So, I'm just going to open
that up again. I'll split this up right
here and I'm going to change this to the
asset browser. Under all libraries, I'll
come down here to where it says human
based meshes. And now you should see all
of these in place. So all these are free
assets that we can use on both our
personal projects and both on commercial
projects that provided by the Blender
Studio for free. So we can use this on
our projects. So I'm just going to go to
the styiz category here. And we're going
to make use of the jaw. I'm just going
to drag and drop that here. We're also
going to make use of the eyes right
here. And I'm just going to close this
one down.
Okay. So, right here, those are a bit
far away. We can just select the both of
them. Alt G to clear the location right
there. Okay. So, we have been able to
clear the location. Let's go ahead and
let's place the eyeball in the right
place. We're going to use the eyeball
that we added in earlier when we were
sculpting as reference. So, I'm just
going to unhide the eyeball from the
outliner. And then I'm going to move
this one into place. So I'm just going
to place it right here. I'm going to
scale it down. Something like this just
to be similar shape to the eye that we
had in earlier. And also from the side
I'm going to move this one forward
somewhere around here. And I can just
scale this one down a little bit more.
And I have something that looks like
this. I'm going to hide the original
eye. And now we have something that
looks like this. I can shade this one
smooth. Okay. And for the eyeball, we
want to make sure that when we rotate it
is not clipping through the eye cavity.
So, just press R twice to rotate that.
And then just make sure it's not
clipping through the eye cavity. I can
see a bit of clipping. I'm just going to
move slightly move this back. We still
going to add another object for this
that represent the corner of the eye.
But for right now, this is looking good.
I'm just going to adjust it into the
right position. And if I rotate that,
it's not clipping. Okay. So, that's
exactly what we want. I'm going to go
ahead and I'm going to mirror this over
to the other side. So, I'm just going to
mirror this for now. And something like
that looks good for the eyes. Also, the
same thing for the teeth. We're going to
go ahead here. And I'm just going to
place it inside of the mouth. So,
somewhere around here. I can scale this
down just to fit the shape of the mouth.
And I'm going to place this right here.
All right. Now, I can I need to make
some changes on the mouse cavity. So,
I'm just going to select this and I'm
going to press shift H to hide these
ones. Okay. And the changes I want to
make are right here. I'm just going to
select this edge and I'm going to make
sure proportional eding is turned on. S
and X. I'm just going to scale this one
up on the X-axis a little bit more. So
select this and scale it up something
like that. So that that actually fits
the teeth right here. Okay. And
something on these bit meshes right
here. These faces are just extra faces
that we are not going to use. So I'm
going to go into edit mode. I'm going to
press L to select this. And under the
menu here we can select sim. These faces
we are never going to see them. So we
can just delete them. They're just extra
faces that we don't need. So we can
delete those pieces right there. Also
the same thing right here. We can delete
these pieces. And then also the same
thing under the tongue. We can delete
these pieces right here. Okay. Just to
optimize the mesh a little bit more. I'm
going to unhide every other thing. I'll
just unhide I'll just hide this back.
Okay. And now we have been able to add
in the eyes and the teeth and the tongue
for our character. Okay. I'm going to
turn off the wireframes right here. Now,
the last step to complete the topology
of the body is to go ahead and retarget
sculpted details back to our topologized
mesh right here. I'm just going to make
sure my screen cast keys are turned on
here. I'm just going to clean off the
rotations. And the way we are going to
retarget it, we're going to go ahead and
we're going to use the shrink wrap
modifier. So, I'm going to select this.
We can apply at this point. We can apply
the mirror modifier. So I'm just going
to apply this. Then I'll add in a shrink
wrap modifier.
And for the target, we want to choose
our body sculpt. Okay. Now we have
something that looks like that. But if
you notice on the face, the eye cavity
and the mouth cavity don't know exactly
where to be snapped to. So, we want to
select those geometry and I want to tell
those parts of theology not to snap to
any part of the body scope. So, let's go
into edit mode. I'm going to unhide
everything with alt h and I'm just going
to disable the shrink gra modifier for
now. So, I'm going to go into the eye
right here. I'm going to select this
loop for the eye cavity. I also do the
same on the left side of character and
Ctrl + to just select till I get
somewhere around here. Okay. And we are
going to create a new vertx group right
here. I'm going to add in a new vertx
group and I'm going to call this no
shrink wrap. Okay, I'm going to create
that new vertx group and I'm going to
assign this vertx to that vert group. I
also do the same for the mouth cap. Uh
let me just adjust the shape right here.
I'm just going to increase this. Okay.
And then I'm going to select these ones
and something like this. A selection
like this is going to be just fine. Then
we can assign these ones to the no
shrink wrap right here. I'm going to
turn back on the shrink wrap. And under
where it says vertx group, we going to
select the no shrink wrap. And we are
going to need to invert this. Okay. So
now you're going to notice that the
mouth cavity and the eye cavity are not
affected by the shrink wrap. All right.
To continue the process of retargeting
sculpted details to our topology, we are
going to go ahead and we're going to add
in a multi-resolution
modifier. And we're going to move this
one above the shrink wrap modifier. And
we're going to subdivide this once. And
I'm just going to subdivide this once
again. Now you're going to see that most
of our details are back on our
character, which is nice and exactly
what we want. We can now go ahead and
apply the shrink wrap modifier. So I'm
just going to go ahead and I'm going to
apply this.
Okay. Now, with the materials modifier,
what we want to go ahead and do is just
to go ahead and clean up the rest of the
sculpt. Now we have a lot more geometry
that we can work in with the we have a
lot more geometry that we can work with
with the more trace modifier added. So
we're just going to go ahead and we're
going to clean up the sculpt. So right
here on the eyelids I'm just going to
clean up the skull. So I'm just
smoothing out everything that we have.
So I'm just starting off with the face
and I'm cleaning up the eyelids. So
right here we can make this a little bit
sharper. I can use the crease polish
brush and just sharpen this up a little
bit more.
Okay, I'm going to smooth this out like
this. All right, now that eyelid is
looking really nice and sharp. I can
crease in the bottom of the eyelid right
here. And I can adjust the shape of the
eyelid into something more that I like.
Okay, something like this. I can smooth
out these areas right here.
And with the materials modifier in
place, we are just going ahead and we
are refining the shapes that we have on
our sculpt. Right here, you're going to
see that the mouth is opening. So to
close off this opening, we don't want to
be able to see the teeth. To close off
this opening, let's just use the inflate
brush. And let let's just close this up.
Something like this.
All right. Something like this looks
nice. I'm going to use the grab brush.
I'm just going to push this in.
Something like that. So that's for the
corners of the mouth. And right here,
I'm also going to use the inflate brush
and then just inflate the lips right
here. And also the lower lips right
here. We can further crease the lips
here. So I'm just going to use the
crease polish brush. Going to hold down
control and I'm going to crease the lips
right here.
Okay. Also right here, I'm going to mark
out the chin. I'm going to just smooth
out the geometry that we have so far. So
that's exactly what I'm going to go
ahead and do for not just the face, but
the whole body. I'm just going to go
ahead. I'm going to smooth everything
out. I can mark out this area right here
with the crease polish brush for the
corner of the mouth. Something like that
looks good. I'm going to also define the
corner of the nose. I can use the relax
slide brush here and just hold down
shift and zoom this out. And also, if
you're wondering how I'm able to toggle
the wireframes on and off very easily,
you can come up here to where it says
the viewport overlays. And then where it
says wireframes, you can turn it on and
off. If you right click on this, you'll
be able to add a shortcut. So the
shortcut I added onto the wireframes was
shift Q. So, anytime you press shift Q,
it's going to either toggle wireframes
on or it's going to toggle it off. So,
you can just come up here and you can
add in your own shortcuts. Shift Q is
the shortcut that I like to use. Okay.
So, I'm going to use the crease polish
brush. I'm just going to mark this out.
Something like this. And I'm also going
to mark right here out. So, just sharpen
all the details that we had the sculpt.
You can also just use the draw brush and
dig in the noshes in a bit more. You can
also just smooth out the shapes right
here for the no shoes.
Okay, something like that. Definitely
looks good.
All right, I like how that's looking
right there. Let's go ahead and let's
clean up the ears. At the back of the
ear right here, I'm going to use the
relax light brush and just smooth out
the geometry that we have right here.
And
right now we want to go ahead and we
just want to clean up the shapes on the
ear. So we want to make this really nice
and sharp. Right now you can see that
the shapes are a bit too soft. So I'm
just going to go going go in with the
crease polish brush. Going to mark out
the shapes right here for the ear.
Okay.
Something like that.
And I'm also going to do the same right
here.
And I'm also going to do the same right
here. So I'm just defining the edges of
the ear just so that it can look really
nice and sharp instead of it looking
soft. I'm going to mark out this edge
right here. I'm also going to mark out
this edge right here.
And also mark out this edge right here.
And I'm just going to smooth out these
areas. So we have something that looks
like this.
Okay. From the side, let me see what
this looks like. I'm just going to
adjust the shape of the ear until I'm
happy with the way it looks. Something
like that. Definitely looks good for me.
I'm going to smooth out the transitions
on the head here. So I'm just holding
down shift and I'm smoothing all of
these out. Then I can also define this
jaw area right here going into the neck.
to something like this. Okay. I also
define right here with the crease polish
brush. Something like this. Okay. And
I'll hold down shift and I'm going to
smooth all of these ones out. Holding
down shift and I'm just going to smooth
this out. Okay. This is looking good.
Let's go down to the body and we're
going to further define the shapes right
here. I'm just going to use the crease
polish brush to define the shapes
with hold shift. Define the shapes right
here. Also on the rib cage, I'm just
going to define the shapes right here
and also right here. And just take a
look at the topology. And I'll just
still make sure that it's following the
shape of our character. Okay. Right here
in the middle. I can just add this in.
Okay. Something like that. And I can
also just crease in this area right
here. And for the back, I'm going to
smooth out the back. And I'm going to
crease it in a little bit more.
Okay. So, we're not adding extra
details. All we are doing here is just
to refine the details that we have right
now. That's all I want to do right now.
I'm just refining the details that we
already added in. I'm going to smooth
out some of the geometry right here.
Okay. just add the groin area right
here.
And I can also sharpen up right here.
Okay. Something that looks like that. I
can also sharpen up the knee right here.
So I'm just using the crease polish
brush and going over that area. So right
now I see that the topology is not
really following that area. So I'm just
going to use the relax light brush. I'm
going to just push this up just so that
I can follow the shape of the legs.
Something more. Yeah, something more
like this. I'll use the crease polish
brush once again. I'm just going to
define that a little bit more.
Okay, I also do the same at the top
right here.
I'm just holding shift and I'm going to
smooth all of that out. Okay, that is
definitely looking good. Right here, I'm
going to also define the shape on the
ankles.
Okay, I'm going to hold down control and
mark that out. Something like that. So,
we're just defining all the shapes that
we had that we marked out earlier.
Something like this. Definitely looks
good. I'm just going to mark this out.
Okay, I'm going to smooth out the
geometry right here. Making sure that we
have nice transitions from the feet into
the legs. Something like this. I'll hold
down shift. I'm going to smooth it out.
like so.
Okay, that looks good. I'm going to
define the tools a little bit more. I'm
going to hold down shift. I'm just going
to mark this out. Hold down control and
mark out the tools. I'm just defining
the shapes that we had on the tools
earlier from our skulls.
Okay, I can also mark out right here
just in between the toes. And I can also
use the relax brush. Then just smooth
this out. Something like this. Okay,
something like this is definitely
looking good. Let me go ahead and refine
the shapes on the hand. I'm going to
mark right here out. Let me see the back
of the elbow. I'm also just going to
mark right here out. Hold on control and
mark this out. Now also mark out right
here. Okay, looking good. And for the
fingers right here, you can definitely
define the shape of the knuckles.
Something like that.
Also right here. I'm just going to hold
down control and crease that a little
bit. Also something like this.
And on the finger joints, this one is
actually looking quite good. So, I'm
just going to mark this out like so. And
I can hold down control right here. And
then just mark this one out. I'm going
to hold down control with the crease
polish brush and mark this out.
Okay. Something also like this. Hold on
control and I'm going to mark this out.
the same thing right here. I'm going to
hold on control and I'm going to mark
this out. And also the same thing right
here. So, you definitely want to take
your time with this. I'm kind of rushing
a little bit cuz this chapter has gotten
a little bit too long. So, just go ahead
and make sure you take your time with
this. So, I'm just going to mark this
out until I have a shape that looks like
this. Also at the bottom right here, I
can just mark all of the shapes out. And
also right here, I can mark this out a
little bit more. Okay, I like how this
is looking. I'm going to go into object
mode. And right now, we want to apply
the multi resolution modifier. But we
are not actually going to come in here
and we not going to apply it. If you do
that, you're going to have too much
resolution for our character. This is
going to become less optimal for
animation and deformation. So we are not
going to do that. So the way we are
going to do this is we are going to come
down here to shape and we are going to
apply the base. And what that is going
to do if I just turn off right here you
can see that on our base topology is not
we don't have the shapes that we had
from our sculpt. So if we apply this
base right here, it's going to try and
retarget the shapes that we had on our
sculpt onto our topology. So let's just
go ahead. I'm going to select this and
we're going to apply this. And you're
definitely going to see some changes on
your character. I'm just going to Ctrl
Z. So just take a look at what it looked
like before. And if I apply this, you're
definitely going to see some changes. So
that's just going to help retain some of
the shapes on our topologized mesh. So
now if I get rid of the M resolution
modifier and I apply the subdivisions of
this modifier, now you're going to see
what we have. We still have some of
those details coming through. So we're
just able to retarget what we had onto
the body mesh. All right, this one was a
really long one. Let's go ahead and
let's summarize. So now you know where
to place essential loops on the body for
proper deformation and animation of the
body and you also know how to topologize
the body. As usual, if you need any
extra help with anything I mentioned so
far, go ahead and join the stylish
character academy where I'm going to be
holding your hand every step of the
process. And if you're loving the master
class so far, if you have been able to
get to this point, you can go ahead and
leave a review of the masterass on Trust
Pilot. The link is going to be below
this video. And with that, I'll see you
guys in the next chapter where we are
going to beizing the clues for our
character. All right, I'll see you guys
in the next one.
Welcome to chapter 8. In this chapter,
we are going to be taking a look at
topologizing the clutes for our
character. And our agenda for this
chapter is very simple. First up, I'm
going to show you some important things
to remember for clue topology and then
we'll dive into Blender and we're going
toize the clothes for our characters. As
usual, share this master class with
someone. Let's help more as a spirit
work that they are proud of. And a
little bit of warning for you right now.
This is the most important chapter in
entire master class. So watch the entire
video. Don't skip the video. Don't jump
around. All right, let's get started.
Things to remember for CL topology. Just
keep in mind that all the topology
techniques that we used when
topologizing the face and the body will
still be the same techniques that we are
using for the clothes. But for the
clothology, we need to consider
something that needs to keep in mind is
how the clo is going to deform when the
character starts to move. And to do
that, we need to make sure that we keep
the same or similar topology with the
underlying geometry. So when topizing
the clothes, we just want to keep in
mind how the clothes is going to deform.
And to be able to for the CL to be able
to deform properly, you just want to
keep the same or similar topology with
the underlying geometry. I'll go into
Blender and explain what I mean by that
right here. So I have this clothes that
I just modeled out icically. So this is
a CL model also modeled out the shot and
I've also rigged this paragraph. If I go
into pose mode and I just start to
deform this right here, you're going to
notice that when I start to deform, you
can see that the clothes is breaking a
little bit. Also, the same thing right
here. Let me just rotate the hips. So,
you can start to see the way the clothes
is clipping through the body. And the
reason this is happening, you can see if
I just, this is geometry of the shirt.
If I hide this, you can see the geometry
of the underlying body. So because they
don't have the same or similar topology,
we have issues with deformation like
this. And this is not what we want when
we start deforming our own character.
I'll show you a better example here. So
this shirt right here, I've duplicated
this from the underlying topology of the
body. And if I just go into pose mode
and I move this, you can see how there's
no form of clipping because we have the
exact same topology on the clothes. Also
the same thing right here for the short.
So we want to try as much as possible to
keep the same or similar topology with
the underlying geometry. We might not
always be able to keep the same topology
with the underlying geometry because our
clothes might have folds or might have
some extra part. Maybe might have a
color. So we won't be able to keep the
exact same topology. So we want to just
try to keep similar topology with the
underlying geometry. So that's
everything that you need to know for the
clue topology. Now, let's actually dive
into Blender and we're going to retize
the clothes for our character. And the
way I actually recommend for you to go
through this chapter is just to watch me
doing it so that you can see my thought
process because we are all going to have
different clothing types. So, just watch
how I do it to see the thought process
of methologizing the clothes and then
you'll be able to take the techniques I
use and then implement that in your own
projects. So, this is where we left off
in the last chapter. right here. We just
projected our details back onto ourized
mesh. So, we are going to go ahead and
we're going to redabize the body. I'm
going to let the new loop poly
collection here. I'm just going to press
C to create a new collection under the
loop poly collection. And I'm going to
name this clothes. I'll just name that
probably. All right. Something like
this. And I'll just put underscore
topule there cuz we already have another
collection inside of the high poly
collection called glutes. So I'm just
going to put underscore topology. I'm
also going to rename some of these
objects. So I'm just going to rename the
body here to body. I'm also just going
to rename these ones. I'll rename this
one to I. And I also rename this one to
jaw. Okay. Now we are going to be
topologizing the clothes inside of this
clothes topology and I'm going to show
you my step-by-step process forizing
clothes. So I have it written down here
and if I just zoom into this. Okay. So
the process I like to take forizing
clothes. First off we are going to make
the base topology from the body. So
since we have alreadyized the body we
can make a base topology from the body
of our character. And then once we are
done with that, we are going to align
the topology with the seams. So we have
seams on our clothes like right here and
right here. So we're going to align the
topology with the seams. Once we are
done with that, we're going to go ahead
and align the topology with the folds of
our character of our clothes. And then
we're going to go ahead and we are going
to reinforce the seams that we added
earlier. Then we're going to add some
clothes thickness. And then we are going
to repro sculpted details if any. So
this step is going to be optional. We're
going to repro sculpted details if there
are any sculpted details to be reproed.
All right. So I'm just going to keep
this down here for when we need it. So
let's go ahead and let's start off with
the first step which is make the base
topology from the body. I'm just going
to bring this down here. Okay. I'm going
to hide some of the things that we don't
need to see. So I'm just going to hide
the hair for now. Also just going to
hide the eyebrows right now. Okay. So,
we need to see the clothes. This shirt
right here. Let's go ahead and let's
start off with the shirt. I'm also going
to select the body. I'll just make sure
to name this properly. I just add
underscore
there. Okay. And now I'm going to
duplicate this. So, remember I said we
want to meet this topology from the
body. So, let's duplicate the body. I'm
going to call this clothes. I'm going to
call this one shirt_.
I'm going to move this one into the
close to topology collection. Okay. Now
I'm going to select that and select this
shirt and I'm going to shift H to hide
every other thing. So shift H is going
to hide every other thing. And let me
just make sure to turn on screencast
keys here so you can see the keys I'm
pressing. All right. Now we have this
body duplicate and we have our high poly
truth. Okay. So now let's go into edit
mode on the body topology and we're
going to delete some parts that we're
not going to use for the topology of the
shed. So right here I can select these
pieces. X and I can delete these faces.
I can hover over this part. L to select
all. And then I'm going to delete this
part. Also the same thing right here.
I'm going to delete these faces. And
also right here I'm going to delete
these faces. Also the same thing right
here. I can delete these faces. And I
can just select these with L. And I'm
going to delete these ones. All right.
Now, this is going to serve as the base
topology. So, let's go ahead and let's
add a shrink modifier to this. We can
get rid of the subdivision surface
modifier. We don't need that one for
now. I'm going to go ahead and add in a
shrink wrap modifier. I'm just going to
select the targets as the clothes
sculpt. Also right here, let's make sure
to just turn off the solidifier on our
CLR sculpt so that the geometry actually
sticks to the front of our CL score. So
I'm just going to remove the solidifier
from there. Okay. And if I go back into
edit mode, I'm also just going to turn
on the topology right here so that we
can see this a little bit better. You
can see what we have. I'm going to
duplicate and apply the shrink modifier.
And now you can definitely see what we
have a lot better. All right. So, let's
just go ahead and let's line this ones
up a little bit more. So, I'm just going
to go ahead. I'm going to line this up a
little bit properly. I'm going to come
down here and then I'm just going to
start placing this into place. You can
also make use of the mirror modifier.
I'm going to delete half of this
X. Delete these faces. And I can go
ahead and add a mirror modifier. And I'm
going to move this up right here. Okay.
I can get rid of this edge right here.
might not be really useful. We can
always still add one if we need to. And
what I'm just doing right now just to go
ahead and place a topology following the
shape of the clothes so we can properly
have it on the edge right there. So I'm
just placing the topology. You want to
make sure that you have it on the
correct spot.
All right. Now we have something that
looks like this. This loops here might
be a little bit too much, a little bit
unnecessary. So you might end up getting
rid of this. But for now, that's fine.
I'm just going to come down here. I'm
going to place this ones to start to
follow the shape of the shirt.
Okay, something like that is going to
look good right here. If you remember
this additional topology right here that
we added for the bodyizing
the body, we're not going to need this
for the CL. So, you can just go ahead I
can select this. I'm going to turn on
auto mage bes here. Then I'm just going
to slide this on on itself. And also the
same thing right here. So we just clean
off that topology right there. Also at
the sleeves here. I'm just going to
bring this in. And I'll just make sure
that this is following the shape of the
sleeves. Okay. So I have something like
this right now. And let's just get rid
of some of this extra topology. So the
topology right here is not going to add
anything additional to the clothes. So
let's just go ahead. I'm going to select
these pieces. X. I'm going to delete
these faces. Also, these faces right
here. I'm just going to get rid of those
ones. And I can also get rid of these
ones right here. And to cover this up,
we can select these these faces right
here or these vertices right here. And
then we can just extrude something like
this. I'm just going to extrude. Scale
this on the X-axis a little bit. Bring
this this way. Extrude. Scale this down.
I'm going to extrude this one more time.
I'm going to turn on clipping on the
middle modifier so that it just clips to
the middle right there. I can also turn
on this option right here so that we can
see the other side too. I'm going to
select this and just fill this faces in.
Okay, I'll make sure I fill that in
correctly.
Okay, something like that. We're going
to need one loop going down here. That's
completely fine. I'm just going to add
in one loop right there. And I'm going
to add in these ones. Something like
this. And now I'll just go into sculpt
mode. I'll go to the object properties
and I'm going to turn on wireframe so
that I can see the wireframes in sculpt
mode. And then I'm just going to hold
down shift and I'm going to smooth out
the topology that we have right here.
Okay. Smooth out the topology in the
middle. Also at the back, just going to
hold down shift and smooth out the
topology here. Also at the back, I'm
just going to go ahead smoother the
topology here. Okay. And if you see any
weird stuff going on like this, let's
just go ahead duplicate and apply the
shrink modifier. And that should
temporarily fix that issue. Okay.
Something like this is going to be just
fine.
All right. Now we have something that
looks like this. I'm just going to go
ahead and duplicate and apply the shrink
wrap so that we can apply the shrink
wrap transforms in edit mode. So now we
have something that looks like this. I'm
just going to make sure that the base
topology is looking good before we move
on to the next step.
All right. Now we have this base
topology that we can work with. And the
next step we're going to go ahead and
we're going to align the topology with
the seams of the clothes. So let me just
drag this down here. And let me show you
the seams on this sculpted mesh here. So
you can see we have seams around the
collar here. And I also have seams along
the sleeves right here. So, we're going
to go ahead and we're just going to
align the topology with the seams right
here. This one is very straightforward.
I can just come in here and place this
ones to follow the seams right here.
I'm just going to place that all along
this seam. Like so. Okay. Something like
that is definitely looking good. I can
select these ones and then just adjust
it to fit the changes that we made.
All right. Now, we have something that
looks like this. And I also have seams
right here. So, I'm just going to use
this edge to place it on that seam. So,
these ones I'm just going to move back a
little bit so that I have some space to
be able to do that. All right. And then
I'm just going to place these ones on
the seams right here. Okay. I'll make
sure that that looks appropriate from
all angles.
And I can just slide these ones down so
that the faces here are not too
compressed. I'm going to slide this
down. I select these ones. Slide them
down. Okay, now we have something that
looks like this. And I'm just going to
go into sculpt mode. I'm going to use
the relax light brush. Just smooth out
the topology that we have right there.
Something like that. I'll make sure that
this is following these seams.
Okay. And also at the back right here,
something like this definitely looks
good. Okay, this topology right here
might be a little bit unnecessary.
So right here, the topology is not going
to follow the shape of the sleeves. So
I'm just going to rebuild the topology
at the sleeves here. I'm going to get
rid of these pieces right here. Can also
select these ones and these ones. X. And
I'm going to delete this pieces right
there. And let's just rebuild the
topology. I'm going to select this and
I'm going to turn off snapping up there.
And we can just extrude this down.
Something
like this. Okay. I'm also going to place
this right here. I'm going to duplicate
and apply the shrink wrap. Something
like this. Just so that that sticks to
the surface or to the edge of the
sleeve. Somewhere around there is fine.
And I can also get rid of this. And then
I'll just come in here. I can add in
more loop cut. So I can just add in four
loop cuts right there. Okay, I can see
that the edges are compressing right
here. This is going to be fine. I'm
going to show you how we are going to
reduce the number of edges that we have
here. We are going to do that in the
next step. For now, this is going to
look just fine. Okay. And I'll just make
sure that everything is looking good
from right here. I'm going to go into
sculpt mode and I'm just going to smooth
out the topology right here.
Okay, right here. I don't really like
this pole right here. It's not really
necessary to have it. So, I can X. I can
delete these faces. And let's just
rebuild out this topology. I can also
get rid of dissolve that edge right
there. And I can select these ones and
slide it on itself. And then I can merge
these two together right here. I'll go
into sport mode. And then I'm just going
to smooth out everything.
All right. Now we have something that
looks like this. This looks a lot nicer
for the clothes we are going for. Okay.
I can add in an extra loop right here
just to maintain the shape of the
clothes. I'll go back into sculpt mode
and I'm just going to smooth this out.
And also right here I'm going to smooth
all of these out. And then I can adjust
the placement of this bes at the top
here. Okay, that is definitely looking
good. I can just keep on adjusting these
edges to make sure that the topology
looks nice and make sure that the seams
are aligning. So that's what we are
doing in this stage. We're still
aligning the seams right here. I'm just
going to place this right here and I can
add an extra edge loop right there just
to confirm better to the shape of the
clothes. I'm going to duplicate and
apply addition grab modifier.
So you have something that looks like
this.
All right. Now, we've been able to align
the seams and something like this is
definitely looking good right now. Okay.
So, that is the second step done. The
third step, what we want to do is to
align the topology with the folds that
we had on the clothes of our character.
So, we want to align, let me just hide
this for a moment. And we want to align
them align the topology with these
folds. So, I'm just going to draw out
the folds. I'm going to use the
annotation tool to just draw out the
parts that we want to align. I'll change
my placement to surface there. I'm just
going to draw out the parts that we want
to align the topology. So, I'm going to
align them at this high point of the
fold and also this low points of the
fold
something like this. And then we can
also align it with right here. We don't
have too much topology on the or we
don't have too much folds on the
clothes. So this is going to be easy
enough to align. I'm just going to place
this right here. So you want to align
the topology with this annotation lines
that we just draw. Right now I'm going
to unhide that mesh and I'll go back
into edit mode and we can go ahead and
we can start aligning this topology. I'm
going to go into the vertex selection
mode. I'm just going to start aligning
this with the annotation lines that we
draw out.
I'll make sure snapping is done. And
I'll just go ahead and keep on aligning
this. Okay. Right here. I'm going to
need to move these ones up.
And then also I'm just going to place
these ones right there. Something like
that. We are going to need some more
topology at the bottom here. I can just
add in two loop cuts right there. I'm
going to go ahead and just duplicate and
apply the shrink modifier so that I can
apply the transforms in the edit mode.
Okay. And then right here, I'm going to
go ahead and I'm going to use this loop.
This loop right here. I'm going to align
it with this second annotation line that
I have here. I'm just going to start
aligning that something like this.
Okay, this one is very easy to do. I'm
just going to bring this down somewhere
around here. I'll place this here. We
want to make sure that we don't merge
this together. So, I'm just going to
move this up. Okay. And then I'll just
place this correctly.
Something more like that. Okay. And then
I'm also going to use this loop cut here
and align it with this third annotation
line here.
So, that's all I'm doing right now is
just to align the topology with the
folds. All right. Now, we have something
that looks like that. And then I'm going
to align this last and final one right
here. Something that looks like this. So
this one is coming down. So I'm just
going to select this ones and bring them
down. Something like this. And I can
clean this annotation lines right now
since we have pretty much aligned every
other thing. So I'm just going to clean
the annotation lines. So we have
something that looks like this for right
here. Okay. And for the folds to make
the folds or to make the topology
conform to the shape of the folds
something I like to do is just to select
the edges right here. So the edges right
here on this high point of the fold. I'm
going to select till here. And then the
easiest way to get more geometry so that
you can conform to the shape of the fold
is just to bevel this. So I'm going to
bevel this somewhere around here. And
the bevel options I'm going to change
the segment to two.
And right here we have created this end
gun and this triangles. We don't want
that. So let's just slide this one in.
Make sure auto merge vertic is turn. And
then GG I'm going to slide this one in
somewhere around there. Also the same
thing right here. And then let's select
this edge and also this edge. And then
dissolve those edges right there so that
we don't have the triangles. And now we
can make this versus photo right here.
So, you're just going to follow the
shape of the folds a little bit more.
Something like this.
All right. So, we're just making the
folds confirm a little bit better. Now
that we have more geometry, I'm going to
bring this one down here.
Okay. Something like this. I'll go back
into scorch mode with the relax light
brush. I'm just going to smooth out the
topology a lot more.
Okay. And if I just isolate this mesh,
you're going to see how because we added
that additional geometry there, you can
see the shape of the clothes in object
mode. You can see the shape of the folds
in object mode. And by the way, we are
going to be making the normals of this
clothes. So we just want the topology to
follow the shape of the clue just a
little bit more. Then we are going to
use the normals to get in back all our
details. So something like this is going
to be fine. I'm going to slash to go out
of the local view. And then I'm going to
add in a look there so that that fit
that face is not too stretched. And then
I can just use the smooth brush. Then I
can smooth all of these out. Okay.
Something like this. I'm just going to
go ahead and smooth out the geometry
right here. And also smoother right here
in the middle all the way going all the
way to the back. Something like this.
Okay. I can add in another loop right
here. So that this one conforms better
to the shape of the sculpt. All right,
we have something that looks like this
right now. And I'm really happy with the
way this looks. Okay, so we have been
able to align the topology with the
folds down there. I'm just going to
duplicate and apply this so that we see
that a little bit more. And if you need
to at any point of time, you can just
come in here if you need more geometry.
Just bevel this and then make the
additional changes that we made so that
we don't have any angons and triangles
on your mesh. But for me, this looks
fine right here. So I also have some
folds on the sleeves. So I'm just going
to go ahead and I'm going to align this
edges with these different pose I have
on the sleeve. I'm going to turn off
snap in here. And I'm just going to move
this one somewhere around here. Then I'm
going to place this to be on the high
point of the fold. I can also add in
another loop here. Okay. So, this is
going to retain the geometry of the
folds a little bit more. I'm going to
place this one right here.
Then I'll place this one right here.
Okay. Now, we have something that looks
like this. I'll just make sure that this
on the high point of the fold. And then
this one, I'm going to place it on this
low point of the food. You can use out
the annotation tool to mark this out. If
you need to see this a little bit
clearly, for me, I'm just going to go
ahead and I'm just going to place this
in the correct spot. And right here, I
can place this on the high point of this
fold.
Something like this.
Also, right here, I can place this one
on the low point of this fold.
And we have a slight fold right here. So
I'm just going to place the ve just to
align with the folds.
Something like this. And I can also just
select this one and move them out.
Something more like this. So you can see
how the topology is now following the
shape of those folds right there. I can
also add in another look right here.
Just something like that. All right, we
have way too many edges compressed right
here. So to get rid of those, I can
select this.
So I'm just going to select this edges
till I get somewhere around here. Okay.
And then I'm going to slide this one on
this vertex right here on this edge
right here. Just going to slide it. And
with auto mage turned on, that's going
to mesh together. And also the same
thing right here. And I'll just make
sure that I don't have So I just meshed.
Okay, before we do that, let's make sure
to turn off snapping so that we don't
have any weird deformation. So I'm just
going to snap this. Okay, and then I'll
also do the same right here. Snap this
right here. Then I can get rid of this
triangle
and then also this triangle right here.
Now I've been able to reduce the number
of polygons or the number of edges
running down to the bottom of the
sleeves. And we also still have this one
following the shape of the topology.
Something like this. Okay, I'm just
going to adjust this one. And right
here, I can also do the same thing. So I
can just collapse this one like this.
I'm just going to move this to somewhere
around here. And then also the same
thing here. I can collapse this one
right here. Then I'm going to get rid of
the triangles.
Okay. And I'm just going to make this
diamond shape at the sleeves here and
also right here. And now I've been able
to reduce the number of geometry running
from the top of the sleeve to the bottom
while still maintaining the folds from
our sculpted mesh. Okay. So we have
something that looks like this. I'll go
into sculpt mode. I'm just going to hold
down shift and I'm going to smooth out
everything. Okay. And now we have
topology that looks like this. All
right. So now we have been able to align
the topology with the folds on our crude
sc. So let's move on to the next step.
This is going to be to reinforce the
seams. And by reinforcing the seams just
means adding more geometry to the seams
so that when we subdivide this the seams
are still intact. So, I'm just going to
select those parts where I have seams
right here. So, that's here and here.
I'm going to select this. And I'm just
going to show you an example here. If I
had a seam right here, I'm going to show
you something there. Just imagine I had
a seam right there. I'm going to bevel
this.
Okay? Something like this. So this is
exactly how we want to reinforce the
seams just by adding in more geometry
both to the front and to the back of
those seams. So now we have something
that looks like this. And I'm just going
to Ctrl Z. I'm going to do that again.
And I'm going to make sure automate
versus is stand. Then I'm going to just
bevel this again.
Now we have something that looks like
this. And if you had the seams
intersecting each other like this, what
you just go ahead and do right here is
just to select this and you can S and
scale this to zero. Okay, let me turn on
automate so that that M is at the
middle. So S and zero and then you just
go ahead select these two edges and then
Ctrl X to get rid of that edge right
there. So if you had seams that were
intersecting, that's just how you go
ahead and do that. I'm just going to
select this S and zero and then select
this and Ctrl X. And you do that for all
the seams that are intersecting. Just
like that. I don't have seams right
there. So, I'm just going to Ctrl Z. And
I'm going to merge these back together.
So, I can just select the zones and
merge them back on itself. I'll make
sure auto merge basis is turned on here
and can just mesh this one back on
itself. And then also the same thing
right here. So that's how you would
approach if you had seams intersecting
on this clothes. I don't have seams
intersecting. So it's going to be
completely fine for me. At the bottom
here, I'm just going to make sure that
there's still space between the
reinforced seams and the other part of
the topology. I can just move these
parts down
and something like this is going to work
just fine. All right. You have been able
to reinforce the seams there. So if we
subdivide this, this is going to look
really nice, especially around the seams
right here. I'm just going to make sure
to that we don't have faces stretching
this way. I'm just going to place this
something like this.
And I will go back into sc mode and then
I'll just smooth out the geometry that I
have right here. All right. So that we
have even cord topology
all around the topology of the
Okay. Now we have something that looks
like this. And this is definitely
looking good. I like the way this is
looking for the clothes. Okay. So now we
have been able to reinforce the seams.
The next step we're going to go ahead
going to add in CL thickness on our
shirt. So to do that we can apply the
mirror modifier here. We don't need that
anymore. And we're going to add in a
solidify modifier. Okay. And I'm just
going to increase the thickness.
Something like this. And to know how
this is going to look when because we're
eventually going to subdivide this, we
can just right now go ahead and add a
subdivision surface modifier. So I'm
going to press Ctrl 1 to add in a
subdivision surface modifier. We are
still going to remove this, but for now
I'm just using it to gauge the type of
thickness I need for this clothes. So
something like this should be fine. I'm
just going to change it to 0.007
right there. And I'm going to get rid of
the subdivision surface modifier. Okay,
now we have thickness on the clothes. We
are going to go ahead and we're going to
apply the solidify modifier. But if I
apply this right now, you're going to
notice that we have something like this
going on on the shirt. And what's going
on is that with the solidify modifier,
it created this inside part and it also
created this rim. And since you still
have the shrink wrap modifier on this,
everything is being shrink wrapped to
the clothes sculpt. Okay. So the way we
are going to combat that. Let's just go
to the object properties. I'm going to
remove this vertx group here. And I'm
just going to create two new vert.x
groups. I'm going to name this one
shell.
And then I'm going to name this one rim.
I'll go back to the modifiers. And then
under the solidify modifiers we have
this output vertex group. So if we
select the corresponding V group names
once we apply this solidify modifier the
shell which is this inside part of the
solidify modifier is going to be
assigned to that vertex group and also
the same thing for the ring. So I'm just
going to go ahead now and apply that. So
we still have the same issue but we can
now go into edit mode. I'll go to the
object properties. I'll create a new
vertex group. I'm just going to leave
the name as group. And then I'm going to
select the shell. So all the faces that
are in the shell. Also going to select
the rim and I'm going to assign those to
this new vert group that we added. I'm
just going to assign that there. I'll go
back into objects mode. And under the
shrink modifier, we can just select the
group and then let's just invert this.
Okay. And let me just isolate this. And
now you're going to notice that the
solidify is working exactly how we want
it to work. All right. Now we can go
into this mode. And right here I'm going
to turn off the topology. Right now just
going to turn this one off. I'm going to
add in a loop in the middle here just so
that we can round out this corner. So
I'm just going to press alt s just round
this out a little bit. I'll just also
make sure to do this on the other side
too so that can make use of symmetry. So
just select both sides and then S just
scale this out just so that we can round
it out a little bit. Something like
that. All right. I also do the same
right here.
Alt S. I'm just going to scale this one
out.
And then also the same thing at the
bottom right here. Alt S. I'm going to
scale this one out. Okay. these faces
that was created or that were created by
the solidify modifier we are not going
to see them so we just need to optimize
this mesh and the way we can do that is
by deleting some of these pieces so that
we don't have additional geometry that
we are never going to see so right here
I'm just going to select these loops
right here I'm going to delete those
pieces
okay I'm also going to come in here
going to select these loops here
Something like that. Make sure to select
the loops going around. I can X delete
those faces right there. And just before
I delete that, I'm going to select
mirror selection to the other side. And
the shortcut for that is control shift
M. And under here, I'm just going to
make sure to press extend so that we can
select both sides. And then I'm going to
delete the faces. And then also the same
thing right here. I'm just going to
select those faces X and delete. And we
can I can hover over this. Press L. It's
going to just select all those faces
that we are not going to see. X. And
we're going to delete those faces right
here. Okay. Now, we still have
thickness. If I go into object mode, we
still have thickness on this. But those
faces that we're not going to see, we
have been able to get rid of them. All
right. Now, we have been able to add
thickness.
Next thing I want to do is to repro our
sculpted details back from our sculpted
mesh onto our topologized mesh. The way
we going to do that is with the mult
modifier. So I'm going to come to the
modifiers here. I'm going to add in a
more resolution modifier. I'll move this
above the shrink modifier and I'm just
going to subdivide this. Okay, you can
already see that we are getting our
details back. Now I'm just going to
subdivide this one more time. Something
more like this.
All right, now we have something that
looks like this. This look really clean
and really nice. I'm going to go ahead
and I'm going to just apply the shrink
modifier. And right here on the clothes,
we are not going to be applying the base
the way we did for the body. We are
going to leave it the way it is right
now because we are going to be baking
down the normals. So, we are going to
leave the multi on this until we get to
that stage of baking. So for right now,
you can just still go into sculpt mode
and you can refine the shapes around the
clothes around the seams. Right? So you
can just refine the shapes to make sure
that you have exactly what you want. You
can also come in here and can add in
some more additional details on the
clothes. So you can just add in smaller
folds something like this on the
clothes. So you can just do that because
we're going to be baking all the details
down. I'm not going to do that right now
just so that we can go ahead and we
canize other parts of the character.
Okay. The next part I'm going to beizing
for this character is going to be the
skits. I'm just going to unhide
everything. Okay, I'm going to hide
these ones. I don't need to see them.
And the next part I'm going to is going
to be the skits for our character. So,
we are going to be using this exact same
steps for the skit. But you notice that
the skit is a little bit different from
the body. So, the body topology won't be
able to fit around the skit. But we're
still going to borrow some topology from
the body to start off as a base for the
SK topology. So I'm going to go ahead.
I'm going to duplicate the body
topology. And I'm just going to rename
this to SK and make sure I have correct
spelling. SK topology. And I'm going to
move that into clothes topology
collection right there. And I'm going to
select the SK. I'm going to shift H to
hide every other thing. I'm going to
select this. I'll go into edit mode and
let's delete the pieces that we're not
going to delete. I'm just going to
select this one right here. I'm going to
delete that face. L to select these
ones. X. We can also delete these ones.
And right here, we can delete these
faces.
I'm just going to delete these faces.
Also, the same thing at the back. I'm
going to delete these faces. And then
I'm just going to select all these other
ones. So, I'm just hovering over this
and pressing L to select those. And I'm
going to just delete those Ves. All
right. So, this is going to serve as our
base for the skates. Let's go ahead and
let's add in a shrink wrap modifier.
I'm going to also get rid of the
subdivision surface. We don't need that
for now. I'm going to set the target as
the SK right there. I'm also going to
select the SK and just get rid of the
solidifier. We can just disable it in
the meantime. Okay. So, we need a
topology right here. I'm going to go to
into object properties and under view
port display, I'm just going to turn on
wireframes right there so that I can see
the wireframes of this. All right, this
is going to serve as a nice base for the
skit. I'm just going to go ahead and
duplicate and apply the shrink modifier.
And then I'm just going to start
adjusting the base topology. So, we are
still in step one. We are making the
base topology from the body for this
sket right here. I'm just going to
adjust this topology and I can start
aligning the faces that we are going to
use to create the base topology for the
sket. So I'm just going to bring this
back right here. I'm going to place this
one somewhere around here. I'm going to
turn on the topology right now so that
we can see this a little bit better. So
I'm just going to turnology right there.
And we can also make use of the mirror
modifier. So I'm going to select this
half. I'm going to delete this. I'm
going to also add in a mirror modifier.
Something just like that. And I'm just
going to start aligning the topology.
Something like this. So, we just need
the base topology for the skates.
I'm going to place this one somewhere
around here. I'll just make sure that
this is snapping correctly. So, I'm
going to select this. I can just extrude
this one down here. I'm just going to
place this somewhere around here.
for the skits. Also the same thing right
here. We're going to extrude this one
down.
And I'll create new faces. So I'm just
selecting this expressing F to create a
new face right there. And also a new
face right there until I get to this
other part of the skits.
Okay. Now we have something that looks
like this. And I'm just going to select
these edges in the middle here. I'm
going to extrude this one down. I'm
going with clipping on the mirror
modifier. And I'm just going to move the
middle modifier above the shrink wrap.
And then I'm going to place this
correctly. I'm just going to place this
somewhere around here. And I'll just
move this. Make sure that these are
touching each other at the middle right
there.
All right. Now we have something that
looks like this. We can add in some
extra topology right here. And I'm just
going to scale this one down. I just
want to leave space around this place.
So, I'm going to add in another loop cut
here. I'll turn snap in GG to slide this
one in. And just going to leave space
around this part of the skit. Okay.
Something like this.
Okay. Something like this is going to be
fine for the topology. I also do the
same at the front here. I just move this
into place.
All right. Now, we have something that
looks like this. So we can select this
right now and we can E and S to extrude
and just scale that one into place. And
I'm just going to place it following the
shape of the topology. Something like
this.
All right. Also the same thing at the
back. E and S to scale this one to
extrude and scale it down. Or you can
just place it to follow the shape of the
sket.
Now we have something that looks like
this. I'm just going to go into the
skull mode. I'm going to use the relax
light brush and I'm just going to smooth
out the geometry that we currently have.
Okay.
Something like this. I can select these
ones. Just make sure that they in the
middle. Something like that. And let's
space this out a little bit more.
Okay. And let's go ahead and let's just
keep extruding out the geometry for the
base. So I'm going to select this E and
S to just extrude and scale this one
right here.
And I'm also just going to place this
one somewhere around here at this corner
here where it starts to bend. Also the
same thing right here.
Okay. And I'm going to select this F to
create a new face right there. And I'm
just going to leave this face open right
here. Once we add in more geometry, it's
going to be easy enough to fill this in
with a quote. So I'm going to leave this
open instead of filling it with a
triangle. So something like that is
going to be fine for now. I also do the
same right here. I'm going to select
this E and S to extrude and scale this
in. And then I'm just going to make sure
that I place this correctly.
Okay. The same thing right here.
And I'm going to select this and I'm
going to create new faces right there. F
to create a new face right there. And we
can go in and can add in some more loop
cuts right here. So something like this.
It's going to work as the base topology
for the skits. I'm just going to refine
go around and just refine the topology
that we have just so that it doesn't
look too rough. I'm just going to adjust
this ones into place. Something like
this. I'm going to use the relax brush
in sculpt mode to relax this one out.
All right. Now we have something that
looks like this. So this can serve as
the base topology for the skates. So
let's go ahead and let's align the
topology with the seams of the boots. So
right here we can see the seams of the
sket right here. Just going to place
these ones following the skits. Also the
same thing right here. Just going to
place these ones following the edge of
the skates or the seams of the skits.
I can select right here and then just
adjust where this is placed. can also
just make sure I have the snapping
correctly. I'm going to make sure to
select the correct vertx and I'm just
going to place that right here. All
right. So, we can definitely add in some
more loop cuts just so I can conform to
the shape of the topology a bit more.
And we're just going to place this in
the right spot. I can also select these
ones. Then I can just slide them. I'll
make sure we have even geometry around
here. Okay. So, I'm just going to slide
these ones into place. All right, we
have something that looks like this. I
can add in some more loop cuts right
here.
Okay, that definitely looks good. And
let's just adjust this a little bit
more. I can also add in another loop cut
right here.
Something like this. I'm going to get
rid of this loop cut here. And I'm just
going to add in another one just so that
that follows the shape of the edges that
we have.
Can also add in one at the bottom here
and also one at the top right there. All
right, this topology is starting to look
really nice. Just going to move this
something like this. The next step that
we need to take for the clue topology is
to align the topology with the folds. On
this case, we don't really have folds
except right here. And we have already
been able to make the topology follow
the folds of this kit. So right here,
this one is good. And now the next step
is going to be to reinforce the seams.
Just before we do that, let's go ahead
and let's add in more topology. So we're
going to need some more topology right
here. Just going to add in three loop
cuts right there so that that conforms
to the shape of the sculpt. Also the
same thing right there.
All right. And we have something that
looks like that. And I'm just going to
go ahead and keep lining this. Okay. Now
we have something that looks like this.
I'm just going to go into object mode.
I'm going to duplicate and apply the
shrink modifier so that we have
something that looks like this. The next
step, let's go ahead and let's reinforce
the seams on the skits. I'm just going
to select these right here. Make sure to
select all the way down here. Also the
same thing right here.
And also the same thing right here. And
control I'm going to turn off auto
majorities. Ctrl B to bevel this. Okay.
Actually, I want to make sure to
deselect this ones. If you don't have
seams there also right here. And then
I'm just going to bevel this. Something
like this.
Okay. Now we have something that looks
like this. Can align this geometry in
this bit more with the seams. And
remember right here for intersecting
parts what we want to do. I'll turn on
the auto mesh bases. I'll select this
one S and scale it to zero. And then I
can select this one. Ctrl X to dissolve
those edges. Also the same thing right
here. S scale this to zero. And then I
can select this one and dissolve those
edges right there. Okay. I'm going to
just move this edge up a little bit
more.
Something like that. Just that we have
even spaced out geometry. I'm going to
this ones. And then I'll just align this
topology to start looking right. Okay.
I'll go into skull mode and I'll just
use the relaxed light brush. And then
I'm going to smooth out everything.
Okay, I'm definitely going to add in on
cuts right here. And then I'm just going
to space this one out a little bit more.
Something like this. I can also select
this and then just move them out just a
little bit more.
And select these ones, bring them in.
Also select these ones and bring this
one in. Something like this. I can add
in an extra edge loop right here. And
we're just going to make the topology a
little bit more uniform. Yeah, something
like that. Definitely looks good. I'm
going to add in an extra look right
there. And I'm just going to move these
ones into place. Okay, I can also add in
an additional look right here. I'll move
this one somewhere around here. Okay, I
can also select this one, rotate it,
place it somewhere around here.
All right, something like that. So I can
add in an additional loop cut at the
back there. And I can just start to
align these ones a little bit properly
just to make it topology look nice and
even all around at the middle here. I'm
just going to move this out. Turn on
clipping and then just move this on
itself. Okay. And then I'm going to just
come in and align the seams once again
just so I know it's in the absolute
correct spot. So I'm just going to align
this up a little bit more. And now to
close up this holes that we had right
here. Just going to clean up the
geometry right here. And to close up
this holes, let's see. We can we have
two edges right here. And we have four
edges right here. So we need to reduce
these four edges to two. So we can an
easy way to do that. Just bring this
down. I can create a new face right
there. And then I can also create
another new face right here. And then I
can fill this in. All right. Something
that looks like that. Looks very nice.
Also, I'll do the same thing at the
back. I'm just going to select these
ones, bring them down. I'm going to
create a new face right there. Also,
another new face. And then I'm just
going to fill this in.
All right. Something that looks like
this. And just make sure that this still
following the shape of the clothes.
Something like that.
Okay. We can definitely add in an extra
edge loop here just to serve as a
supporting loop cut. And also right
there.
Just going to adjust this one.
Yeah, something more like that. And I
can just move this one into place.
Then also move this on place.
Okay, I just added in an extra edge loop
right there. And I'll also do the same
right here. Just going to add in an
extra edge loop right there. And I'll
make sure that these loops are sitting
right on the edge.
Also the same thing right here. Make
sure it's sitting right on the edge. And
then I'm going to place this correctly
on the skits.
I can add in another extra edge loop
right there.
Okay, now we have enough look cuts and
the geometry is now looking good. So we
can move on to the next step. And the
next step for us is to go ahead and can
add the clothes thickness to the sket.
So to go ahead and do this, we can apply
the middle modifier. And we're going to
add in a solidify modifier right here.
And I'm just going to isolate this one.
And just before I apply that sublify
modifier right here at the bottom, you
can see that the shading is getting
weird a little bit. I'm just going to
add in a look right there. I'll make
sure there's a ton of snapping. Then I'm
just adding a loop cut at the bottom
there. Okay. So that we have clean
shading at the bottom there. Also at the
top, I'm just going to move this one a
little bit closer to the top.
Okay. So something like this is going to
work just fine.
All right. And let me see how this is
looking from the from the back.
Something like this is definitely going
to work fine for the skits. And the same
way we did it for the I'm going to
create new groups.
Two new groups. I'm going to name this
one shell.
And I'm also going to name this one rim.
I'll go back to the modifiers under the
outfield vertx groups. I'm just going to
choose the corresponding names right
here. And then I'm going to apply this.
Okay, I'll go into edit mode. I'll just
turn off the topology for now. You can
see this a little bit better. I'll
select the shell, select the rim, and
also select that one. And then I'll
create a new vertex group. And then I'm
just going to assign the selected pieces
to that new group. I'll go back to
object mode. And under the shrink
modifier, we can select the group. And
then let's just invert this. So we don't
want that solidified part to also shrink
up. So that's exactly why we are doing
that. Okay. Now we have something that
looks like this. We're going to go ahead
and we're going to clean up the
thickness right here. I'm going to go
into edit mode. I'm going to add in a
loop right there. And just before I do
that, we're going to clean up right
here. So before doing that, I'm just
going to select this X. Delete those
faces that are not going to be seen.
I'll probably go higher a little bit
because this is the skirt and it's going
to be potential of it being seen. So I'm
just going to select right here. Delete
those faces. And then also right here
I'm going to delete those faces. I'll
select these ones with air. And then I
can just delete these right here. Okay.
And now we are going to clean up the
geometry right here. I can actually just
select the shell here and shift H to
isolate this one. And I'm just going to
clean up the geometry. So I can slide
this one back.
And also the same thing here. I can
slide this one back just so that those
are not intersecting with each other. I
also make sure to just turn off the auto
edge.
I'll move this one back. And then I'll
move this one back.
All right. Right here at the front. I'll
select this one. Move it back.
And also just clean this up just so that
it looks a little bit much nicer.
And we can also do the same thing right
here at the back. Then select this one,
move it back. Can also select this, move
these ones back.
Select this one and move it back a
little bit. And I'm also going to move
this one back. Okay. And also the same
thing in front here. Select this on them
back.
And I just make sure that the topology
looks nice. Something like that. And we
can actually make use of the symmetry
options. So I'm just going to alh hide
everything. I'm going to go to the
scopes mode. And we can symmetriize
this. I'll make sure that the symmetry
options right here are set to plus X to
minus X so that that's symmetriizes
correctly. And now we have something
that looks like that. You can definitely
still go in and adjust the loops a
little bit more to look nicer, but I'm
going to clean that up after recording
this, but for now, this looks good. Just
going to add in a loop cut at the edge
right here. Alt S just so that we can
round out the edge of the skirt a little
bit more. So, something like that. I'll
also do the same at the top. Ctrl R to
add in a loop right there. And alt S to
just scale that up. So now we still have
thickness on the skits.
Something just like that looks nice. Now
the last step, we're going to go ahead
and we're going to repro sculpted
details. So to do that, we're going to
add in a multi resolution right there.
I'll move that above the shrink wrap.
And I can just go ahead and subdivide
this. I'll just subdivide this once for
now. I can delete the higher to delete
the higher subdivisions.
I can press delete higher to delete the
higher subdivisions. Okay. And now we
have something that looks like this.
Then you can definitely go ahead and
play around with thickness. I'm going to
play around with it a lot more after the
recording, but for now this is going to
look just right. I'm going to go ahead
and apply the shrink wrap modifier.
Okay, now I've been able to go ahead and
redoubleize the skates. If I just hide
this, you can see that really nice
geometry that we have on the skate. So
this is definitely looking good. Let's
go ahead and let'size the shoes for this
character. I'm going to unhide every
other thing.
I'm going to also unhide the high poly
collection. I can hide these ones. And
let me select the shoes right here.
So for the shoes, we are going to use
the exact same steps that we used right
here. So we going to make this topology
from the body. So let's go ahead and
let's just duplicate this body object
here. I'm going to rename that one to
shoe_topu.
And I'll just make sure to move that
into the correct collection. And I just
make sure I have the spelling also
correct here. Yeah. Okay. I select those
two. Shift H to hide every other thing
except these two objects. Okay. Now I
can select this. I select right here.
This faces right here.
I can go ahead and delete this. I'm just
going to delete just the faces. All
right. Something like that looks good.
And I can select every other thing. I
can also select this part right here
because we can just move this over to
the to the other side once we are done.
I'm going to X and delete these faces
right here. And there's also right here.
We don't have anything at the bottom
right here. So I can just select this.
We don't have anything at the bottom of
the shoes. So I can select these ones
right here. I can delete those faces.
Okay. Or I can actually hide those
faces. I'm going to hover over this and
L to select this. And I can delete these
faces. Alt H to unhide this. And for the
sheets or for the shoes, we don't have
those like this. So I can select this
one. Hide this. And L select these ones
in front. X. And we can delete those
faces. And we can unhide every other
thing. Right here at the outs. We don't
need this extra topology. So, I can just
select this. I can turn on auto mesh.
I'm going to mesh this right here.
Okay. Also, the same thing right here.
I'm going to mesh these ones together.
Just like so. All right. This is looking
definitely looking good. I'm just going
to go into the sculpt mode. I'm going to
use the relax brush to just smooth this
out a little bit more. We can also get
rid of the subdivision surface modifier.
We don't need that one for now. All
right. Let's go ahead and let's add in a
shrink wrap modifier. And I'm going to
select the targets as the shoes. Okay.
On the shoes, I'm also just going to
turn off the solidify modifier so that
that snaps to the front of the shoes.
Okay. I'm going to select our shoe
topology. I'm going to duplicate and
apply the shrink wrap. Duplicate and
apply that. Okay. Now, we have something
like this. And let's just go ahead and
let's make the base topology from this
topology that we extracted from the
body. So I'm just going to go ahead. I'm
going to place this below. I'll turn on
snapping. I'll just start aligning this
a little bit more.
Okay. Now that we have aligned that, I'm
just going to select this edge right
here. I'm just going to make sure to
recreate topology for the tip of the
boot. So something like this. I'll just
place this one at the middle and I can
select these two faces or these two
edges here. F to create a new face. Can
also add in a new edge right there. And
then just snap it. Also adding another
new edge right here. Okay. And I'm going
to also come up here to the mesh edit
mode overlay. And I'm going to turn on
the topology just so I can see this a
little bit better. Okay, right here I
want to find the middle. So I'm just
going to select these faces here. You
can see we have 14 edges. So I'm going
to select I just want to find where the
middle here. So I can just connect this
up. I'm going to select here and here.
Then I'm going to select here and here.
And then I'm just going to keep on doing
that until I find the middle right here.
So right here, these two edges at
middle. So, I'm going to select this
one. I select this one. F to create a
new face there. And also F to create
another new face right there. And we can
just fill in the topology right here. I
can create a new face right there. Also
another new face right there. I'm going
to do that one more time right here.
Let's create a new face right there. And
also another new face right there. And
let's go ahead. Let's add in some more
loop cuts right here to the side.
And I'm also going to add in another
loop cut right here on the side. And
then I can create new faces. Something
that looks like this. Also from this
other side, we're going to need to add
in loop cut right here. And then we can
merge this one together. And also merge
these ones together. And right now you
can add in some more loop cuts. I'm
going to just merge this together.
Okay. And let's create topology that
looks like that. And then we can add in
some more loop plots right here. Okay.
So, I'm going to go ahead into sculpt
mode. And then I'm just going to smooth
out the topology right here cuz looks
like topology is not looking too good.
So, I'm just going to smooth out the
topology. I'm going to go into object
properties. And then just turn on
wireframes from the viewport display.
I'm just going to hold down shift and
smooth out everything.
Okay. Now we have something that really
looks nice for the topology for the
shoes. I'm just going to hold down
shift, smooth out everything
all the way to the top here.
Holding down shift and I'm just
smoothing out everything.
And then I can duplicate and apply the
shrink wrap. And then I'll just come
back in here and I'm going to smooth out
everything. Okay. And that is the first
step. We have been able to make the base
topology from the body. Now, let's go
ahead and let's align the topology with
the seams. So, that's the next step. All
right. So, on the shoes, you're going to
see where I have seams. I have seams
right here. I have seams right here. And
then I have this kind of design on the
shoes. So, I'm just going to go ahead
and I'm going to align the topology
right there. So, something like this.
It's going to align this. It doesn't
need to be perfect right now. We just
aligning the topology that we have.
Going to move these ones back.
Something like this. Okay. And also the
same thing right here.
I'm going to move these ones back.
Something like this. And let me just use
alt D to mask the B selection so I don't
see the other shoe right now.
Something like this is going to be fine.
a way to select these pieces going
around it.
Okay, something like this X. I'm going
to delete those faces right there. And
let's just create new geometry that's
going to align properly to this design
that we have on the shoot. So, I can
select these ones right here and I can
just extrude this out.
Okay, something like this. I also do the
same on the other side too. I'll extrude
these ones out.
And I'm going to select these pieces,
bring them down. Then I can create new
pieces right there. Just so that it
aligns properly with the design that I
have on the shoe. Okay, something like
that. And then I can just select this
on. So I'll move this one back. I can
just extrude this a little bit more to
follow the shape of the design.
And I can create new faces just calling
the design of the shoe. Okay. And now we
have something that looks like this,
which conforms to the shape of the shoe
a little bit more. I can add in some
extra edge loops right here. And also
some extra edge loops right here just to
conform better to the shape of the
sculpt. I'm going to duplicate and apply
the shroud modifier. And right here,
let's go ahead and let's just connect
these vertices back together. So I'm
just going to create new faces right
here. And let's see if that's going to
connect correctly together.
Okay.
All right. Something like that. Looks
just fine. I'm going to bring this one
back a little bit. I'm going to scale it
down. Place it right here. And this
topology going this way. I don't know if
that's necessary. So, I'm just going to
select these ones right here. I'm going
to dissolve this. Okay. Also, the same
thing on this other side. I'm going to
dissolve this. And we can select these
loops going at the back here. Now we
have this triangle. To get rid of that
triangle, something that we can do, I'm
going to turn off snapping. I'm just
going to press V to rip this apart. I'm
going to delete those faces.
And then we can create new faces going
all the way to the back, all the way to
the other side. Something like this. And
I can add more loops right here. I'm
just going to go into scroll pro for a
bit to smooth out the topology.
Okay. Also smooth it out on this other
side.
Okay. And we still have seams on the
side right here. These ones are really
easy enough to just go ahead and we're
just going to line this up.
Now we have something that looks like
this. I'm going to get rid of this edge
right here. I'm going to go into sculpt
mode to smooth this out.
And then I'm just going to add back in
another edge right there. Just so that
that follows the shape of the edge that
we have right now.
Okay.
Now we have something that looks like
this. And this is looking not too bad.
This is actually looking good.
Okay. Now we have topology that looks
like this. And now we have been able to
align the seams that we had. And now the
next step is to align the topology with
the folds. right here. So, I'm just
going to use the annotation line to draw
out the folds. I'm going to hide this
one for now. I'm going to use the
annotation lines. We have this fold,
this high point of the fold, and we have
this low point of the fold. This other
low point of fold, we have this high
point. Okay, something like that. I'm
just going to do on one side for now.
I'll unhide this. And let's go ahead and
I'm just going to start placing this to
follow those annotation lines that I
drew out. So something that looks like
this.
I can select these ones, bring them down
just to follow the shape of the pools
that I drew out. Uh I can also bring
these ones down right here.
All right. And then I'm also just going
to bring this on down a little bit more.
Okay. Now I have something that looks
like this.
And I'm also going to place this one a
little bit more like this.
And if you remember, just exactly the
same way we did for the shirts, we can
add in some more geometry. I can select
these ones right here. Okay. Ctrl B to
bevel this.
And then I'm going to slide this one in
here. And I'll just Ctrl Z. I'll turn
off auto mesh for now. I'll bevel that
again.
And let's I'll turn back on auto mesh.
Select these two and mesh them together.
Then we can get rid of these ones right
here. And now I can with this extra
geometry that we have, I can just place
this to follow the shape of the folds a
little bit more. Okay, we have something
that looks like that there. I'm going to
also bevel this edge right here. Going
to mesh this one here and also mesh this
one here. I'm going to select these two,
Ctrl X to dissolve that. I can just
select these edges behind and then just
bring them down a little bit more. And
then I'm going to go into sculpt mode.
I'm just going to use the relax brush to
just smooth out the geometry I have
right there. And I'll also smooth out
the geometry that we have at the bottom.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like that. And yeah, I'm happy with the
way that looks for now. If I need to, I
can definitely still come back and add
in more geometry as I see fit. But for
now, this is going to look good. Let me
just go ahead and focus on this other
side. So, I'm going to hide this one for
now. I'll use the annotation lines to
just draw out the folds right here.
Okay, we have something like this on the
other side. I'll unhide this. And let's
go into edit mode on ourology object.
And right here, I can just place this
one.
Okay, something like that.
I can select these ones right here. Ctrl
B to bevel this. And I'm just going to
select this places right here. And also
the same thing right here. I'll select
this. Ctrl X to dissolve them.
And then I'm just going to place this to
follow the shape of the folds that we
have.
So you have something that looks like
that. Okay, right there. That one is
fine. And then I'm going to select this
one. Bring it down here. Also the same
thing. I'll bring this one down here.
I'll just align this a little bit small.
Can move these ones up.
Something like this. GG to move these
ones up. And then I'm just going to
place this something like this.
Okay, don't worry about this for now.
We're going to smooth out the geometry a
lot more. And I'm just going to place
this something like this. I'm going to
just come here and just place it
following the shape of the folds right
there.
And also the same thing right here. Just
going to place this ones right here.
Okay. I'll go into skull mode. I'll use
the relax brush and then just smooth out
the geometry behind there. So, I'm just
gently smoothing over the geometry that
we have. Okay. So, we have something
that looks like this. Now, I'm going to
duplicate and apply the shrink wrap.
All right. And I'm just going to move
these ones into place right here. This
one at the middle. I can select this
one. Ctrl B to bevel this. And then I
can just merge this part together and
get rid of the triangles here. Ctrl X to
get rid of the triangles. And then I'm
just going to place this to follow the
shape of the folds a little bit more.
See, so this one is going to serve as a
supporting loop for this fold right
here. I'm going to go back into scald
for a bit. And then I'm just going to
smooth out everything.
Okay. Now we have something that looks
like this.
Okay. And right here, what we can
actually do right here is just to merge
this together. So I can select this,
press G to join them together. Also the
same thing right here, G to join them
together. I'll get rid of these diamonds
here. So I'm just going to select these
three faces. Press F. It's going to
create an endone. That's fine. Also
going to select here. Press F and it's
going to create a new face. And then I'm
just going to select this G to join them
together. G to join these two. We want
to join these two together. Okay. And
then I'm going to come in here and then
just smooth out everything.
And I just make sure that the topology
is following exactly the shape that we
want.
Okay. Something like that is definitely
looking good right now. And for the most
part, those are all the folds that we
have on the boot. So I'm just going to
clean this off. Something that looks
like that.
All right. And the next step after
aligning the folds is to go ahead and
reinforce the seams. So right here, this
design on the boots, I think you have
already been able to reinforce these
ones. So these I'm going to leave the
way they are. But for these ones, I'm
just going to move them back into
position.
Okay.
Something like this.
Also on this other side, I'll just make
sure that it's in the right spot here.
Okay. And then you can select those
seams
on both sides. And then I'm just going
to bevel this with Ctrl B.
Okay. Something like that. And these are
going to be it for the seams. So I've
been able to reinforce those seams a
little bit more. I just go into scor
mode with the relaxed eye brush. Then
I'm just going to smooth out the
geometry a little bit more. Now, let me
just isolate this and see what that
looks like. And yeah, that's definitely
looking really, really nice. I'm just
going to leave this one as is. All
right. Then next step is going to go be
to go ahead and add in CL thickness. And
we do this the exact same way we have
been doing it. I'm going to add a
solidifier modifier right there. And
just before I add that, I'm not seeing
right here that this is not matching up.
So, I'm just going to go into sculpt
mode and I'm just going to move this
up a little bit more.
All right. Something more like that.
It's going to be just fine. I'm going to
duplicate and apply this. All right. And
then I'm going to go ahead. I'll add in
a solidify modifier. I can also add in a
subdivision surface modifier on this
just so that when we subdivide this,
we're going to see what the thickness is
going to look like. So I'm just going to
adjust the thickness. Arrange this up to
somewhere around here. Yeah, something
like this should be fine. I'll get rid
of the subdivision of this modifier. And
before we apply the solidifier just we
have as we have been doing. I'm going to
turn off the topology here. Okay. And
then I'm just going to create new Vex
groups. I'm going to name this one
shell. And I'm also going to name this
one ring. I'll go back to object mode.
Under the modifiers, I'll come down here
under the outfit groups. I'm going to
select the correct names and then I'm
going to apply this one. I'll go back to
the object properties. I'll add in a new
vertx group. I'm just going to select
the shell also. Select the rims. I'm
going to select the group. This new
vertx group that we added, I'm just
going to assign those to that group. And
then back to the modifiers. Going to
select the shrinker modifier. And then
the vertx group, you want to select
group. And then we're going to invert
this. All right. Now we have something
that looks like this. I'm just going to
isolate this one. Like so. All right.
Something that looks like that. Looks
good. I'm going to go into edit mode.
And then let's just round out this area
a little bit more. I'm going to turn off
snapping there. And I'll just alt S to
round out this right here. And the
bottom here. We are not going to see
this part. So I can just X and delete
these pieces. And then we can also
delete these pieces right here. And I
can just delete those inner pieces since
we're not going to see them. So
something like this for the boots is
going to be absolutely fine. Okay.
Something like this is definitely going
to work just fine. Now let's go ahead
and let's project our details back onto
the woods. So I'm going to add in a
multi- right there. I'm just going to
move this above the subdivision above
the shrink modifier. I'm just going to
subdivide this. And you can see how
clean it and looks really really clean
with our AWiz mesh. I'm going to divide
this one more time. And this is looking
so so very clean. I like how this is
looking. Right now I'm going to apply
the sh modifier. And with the multi
race, you can definitely go ahead and
add in more details on the boots if you
need to. I'm going to do that after
recording this so that this chapter
doesn't get too long. to keep moving
forward. I'm just going to unhide
everything. I'm also going to clear my
viewport mask. And you can see this
other parts of the shoes that I had. So
these parts are actually model them in.
So we can just reuse the topology that I
had here. So I'm going to duplicate
this. I'm just going to move this into
the low poly collection. Make sure it's
in the right collection. I'm going to
hide the high poly collection for now.
Okay. And then we can get rid of some of
these modifiers. I'm going to remove
this mirror modifier. Actually, I'll
remove this one. Okay, I can move the
solidifier above the subdivision surface
modifier. And then we can definitely go
in here and add in more topology to make
this look nicer. And we can just adjust
the shape of this a little bit more so
that the topology actually looks clean.
Okay, so I have something that looks
like that. And I'm just also going to
adjust this one too.
All right. I also add in some more look
cuts right here. Something like that.
Definitely looks good. I'm going to add
in some more low cuts here also. Okay.
Something like that. I'll make sure that
this is not looking at this looking
smooth. Okay. Something like that. Also
going to look nice. And I'm just going
to remove the color from this for now. I
don't need the color on this one right
now. All right. I'm going to go ahead.
I'm going to apply the subdivision
surface modifier. And I can also apply
the solidify modifier right here. And I
can go into sculpt mode. I can further
adjust this to the exact shape that I
want. Okay. Something like that. You can
definitely go ahead and refine yours a
little bit more. So instead of just
creating new mesh from the body, you can
also reuse existing topology and then
clean that up for the other parts of
your character. I'm also going to do the
same right here for the sole of the
shoe. I'm going to duplicate this one
and move it into the correct collection
right there. I'm going to hide that
collection. And I'm just going to remove
the color from this one.
Okay. And right here, I can actually
apply the subdivision of this modifier.
I'm going to get rid of the solid of the
mirror modifier. That one is not going
to be useful for now. And we can get rid
of some of this extra topology that
we're not going to use. So, I'm just
dissolving some of this topology that's
not going to be useful. And we're going
to have something that looks like this.
And I can get rid of this topology right
here. All right. This one is definitely
looking really nice. I like how that is
looking right now. We can go into sculpt
mode if needed. I'll just go into sculpt
mode on this. And we can adjust the
shape of the sole of the shoe here.
All right. Something like that. And then
the last part I had on the shoe was this
ring right here. I'm going to duplicate
this. I'm going to move this into the
low poly collection. I'll hide the high
poly collection. I'll remove the color
from this one.
Okay. And I can apply all these
modifiers here. I'm just going to apply
the mirror modifier. I don't need this
mirror modifier. So I'm just going to
remove this one. I'm going to apply the
skin modifier. I'm also going to apply
the subdivision of this modifier. Okay.
And now we have something that looks
like this. We have geometry for the ring
just like so. I'm going to duplicate
this for this other side. So shift D to
duplicate this. And we can mirror this
over. The shortcut is going to be Ctrl
M. Then we can mirror this on the
X-axis. Then I'm just going to remove
this pin. And just before I do that, I'm
going to Ctrl Z. I'm going to make sure
auto merge is not turned on. So, I'm
going to duplicate this once again. Ctrl
M and X to bring this over to the other
side. And I'm just going to move that to
the correct spots.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like this. And I'm just going to sculpt
mode. I'm just going to refine the shape
of some of this objects that we have
right here. Okay. So for the close
topology objects, you just want it
should either have the mult modifier or
you should have a subdivision of his
modifiers. All other modifier should be
applied at this stage. So this is how
you're going to just go ahead and
topologize the clothes for your own
character. I'm not going to mirror this
over to the other side just yet. I'm
going to wait. We're going to do the
Eevee unwrapping before I mirror this
over to the other side for the shoes.
But for now, this is going to look good.
And this is how youize clothes for your
character inside of Blender. So let's go
ahead and let's summarize this chapter.
To summarize, now you know how toize the
clothes for your character. You also
know how to create clean topology to
maintain the folds on your clothes.
You're going to need to do some
experimenting to make sure you have it
looking right. So just go around and
play in a topology until you have
something that looks good. Don't forget
if you need any extra help with anything
we have covered in the master class so
far, you can go ahead and join the
styles character academy where I'm going
to be holding your hand every step of
the process. And if you're loving the
master class so far, you've been able to
create something. Just go ahead and
leave a review of the master class on
Trust Pilot. The link is going to be
below this video. I'll catch you guys in
the next chapter where we are going to
start UV unwrapping our character. I'll
see you guys in the next one.
>> 
>> Welcome to chapter 9. In this chapter,
we are going to be taking a look at UV
unwrapping our character. Our agenda for
this chapter, we're going to take a look
at the basics of UV unwrapping. And then
I'm going to show you how to EV unwrap a
3D model, how EV unwrapping works. And
then I'm going to show you some
important UV unwrap considerations, some
things to keep in mind while UV
unwrapping your character. And then
we'll actually dive into Blender and
we're going to UV unwrap a character. As
usual, share this masterass with
someone. Let's say one more artist
create work that they are proud of. By
now, if you've not yet shared this
masterass, come on, just go ahead and
share the master class with someone. And
a little bit of warning, this is the
most important video in the entire
master class for you right now. So,
watch the entire video. Don't skip
around and don't jump around. All right,
let's jump right in. The basics of UV
unwrapping. The core reason that we are
creating UV maps is to get our 3D
character ready for texturing. That's
one of the main reasons that we create
UV maps is to get our character ready
for texturing. As we all know, textures,
videos, painting, even this video you're
watching right now exists on a flat 2D
surface or a flat 2D plane. And so far,
we have been working on a 3D model. So,
we need a way to apply these 2D images
onto our 3D character. So, EV unwrapping
is a process where going where we are
going to take our 3D characters. We are
going to flatten the surface of our 3D
model and we're going to put that onto
2D space. So that's exactly what UV
unwrapping is. So so far we've been
working with the 3D character. So we
need a way to convert or to switch that
onto the 2D space so that we can paint
in textures, images as we need to on our
character. Okay. So so far while
creating our character, we have been
working in 3D space. However, textures
only exist in 2D space. So to avoid
confusion between the 3D space and the
2D texture space instead of using the
XYZ coordinates in the texture space,
the texture space actually uses the U
axis which is the horizontal axis and
the V axis which is the vertical axis.
So whenever you hear UVs just know that
we are simply referring to the 2D
texture space and that's why the name is
called UV unwrapping. So just keep that
one in mind. All right. How to UV unwrap
your character? I'm going to show you
how to understand even wrapping if you
don't still know how this works. So a
good way to understand how even wrapping
works is to think about how clothing is
made. So before a shirt is assembled, it
begins as a flat piece of fabric. So
everything is just like one long big
fabric. So these pieces like right here
you can see that these pieces have been
cut out from a flat material and then
they are stitched together to form this
vinyl this final volume of the shirt. So
that's how UV unwrapping works. So if
you look closely at the shirt you're
going to notice this lines where fab
where the fabric pieces meet. So these
lines are called seams. And these seams
show where the fabric was cut and joined
together. And UV unwrapping works in a
very similar way in order for us to be
able to flatten our 3D character or our
3D model onto 2D space. We need to cut
seams on our model. So I'm just going to
take this back. So right here you can
see the way these were cut and these
were joined. So now we are just
reversing the process. We are going from
a volume like this and now we're going
to cut seams to make them lie flat like
this. So that's just how EV unwrapping
works. In order for us to flatten our 3D
character onto this space, we need to
cut seams on the model. So, these seams
are going to allow the surface of our 3D
model to open up and leave flat on the
UV space. And once it's flat on the UV
space, we can then go ahead and easily
texture and add images onto our 3D
model. Now, let's take a look at some
important UV considerations, some things
to keep in mind. One important thing I
want you to keep in mind when creating
UVs is where the seams are placed. Okay.
So when textures are applied to a model,
the seams can sometime become visible.
So right here you're going to notice on
the shirt right here, you can see the
seams. Also right here where the color
starts, you can see the seams. On a
shirt like this, you want to see the
seams. Like is reasonable that we
actually see the seams. But on our 3D
character, on our 3D model, like the
body, we don't want to see the seams.
So, we don't want those seams to become
visible when we adding textures. So,
because of this, we usually try to place
the Sims in areas that are less visible.
Especially for our 3D character, we are
going to be trying to place the Sims in
areas that are less visible. And we're
also going to place it in areas that are
going to be hidden from the camera. So,
hidden from the 3D view. So, in just
those areas that we're not going to see
as much, that's where we are going to
place the Sims. And then you can also
place seams on naturally separated areas
of the model. So on clothes it will be
reasonable to place the seams exactly
where the seams of the shirt are. So
that won't make sense for clothes. Okay.
So these are just some things that going
to help us create cleaner and more
seamless textures. All right, that's
really all you need to know for UV
unwrapping. We're going to dive into
Blender and we're going to start UV
unwrapping our character. And UV
unwrapping is really simple and you can
also make it like very complicated. So
in this chapter, I'm just going to be
showing you a very simple way of UV
unwrapping your own character. Just the
bare minimum that you need to unwrap
your character. So let's dive into
Blender. This is where we left off in
the last chapter. I'm just going to go
ahead. I'm just going to turn off the
wireframes on this clothes right here.
All right. And I have a UV unwrapping
checklist that we can follow. Okay. So
right here is very simple. We're going
to cut seams like we mentioned in the
fundamentals. Then we're going to fix
stretching if any. And then we're going
to arrange our UVs. So we are going to
be UV unwrapping everything that we
haveized so far. So the body, the
clothes, we're going to go ahead and
we're going toizing all those things.
And you should probably go ahead like
pause the video right now and name your
objects if you have not yet named them
properly. So just go ahead and name your
own objects. So this is the step that
we're going to use for UV unwrapping a
character. We're going to cut seams.
Then we're going to fix the stretching
if any. And then we're going to arrange
the UVs for our character. All right. So
far we have been working in the
sculpting workspace. Blender actually
has this nice UV editing workspace here.
So, I'm just going to select our
character and I'm going to go into the
UV editing workspace. And once we go
into the UV editing workspace, you're
going to notice that it takes us into
edit mode. That's completely fine. On
this view port here, I'm going to bring
up the sidebar. And I'm just going to
change my length to my focal length to
150 just so that I can see the character
a little bit more. So, the first step on
our UVs was to cut seams. So, let's go
ahead and let's cut seams for this
model. And by the way, let me just turn
on screencast keys. If you want to
maximize your view port, you can press
control and space bar to be able to
maximize your view port. Okay, I'm going
to leave it as is right now. I'm going
to go into the edge selection mode. And
now we want to start cutting seams on
our characters. Let's start with the
legs and with the hands and the neck
because those parts are just like
cylinders. And the way you unwrap
cylinders is just to go at the top here.
And you can just select an edge that
goes around the cylinder like that. And
just before I start doing that, I'm
going to turn on one option. I'm going
to come here. I'm going to turn on live
UV unwrapping. I'm also going to come to
the UVs here and I'll turn on live UV
unwrapping. I'm going to show you why I
turn that on in a little bit. Okay. So,
I'm going to Ctrl E and I'm going to
mark that scene right there. If I select
all of these, you're going to notice
that it has started unwrapping. So, I
didn't need to press U and then unwrap
with the live unwrapping, it's going to
unwrap in the UV space. And you're also
going to notice that it's only when I
select everything that I can see the UVs
to make that stop happening. I'm going
to just select this UV sync selection.
So now, even though I don't have
everything selected, I can still see the
UVs. Okay, I'm going to just come down
here. So, this is going to be the bottom
of the cylinder. and then Ctrl E. You
can mark the seams right there. And
you're going to notice how that
unwrapped because of the live UV
unwrapping. I'm going to show you why we
turned this one on a little bit later.
But for now, this is the reason we
turned this live UV unwrapping in the 3D
view port on. Okay, I'm going to select
these edges once again, and I just want
to mirror it over to the other side so
that we can mark the seams on both
sides. So, you can press control shift M
to mirror your selection over to the
other side. And you can come down here
and also just choose extend so that it
selects both side and then ctrl E and
then maxim.
If you select any part of your
character, let's say you select here and
you try to press control shift M and
it's not it's not mirroring over to the
other side, it's probably because your
character is asymmetrical. If you're
making an asymmetrical character, that's
completely fine. You have to just select
every side manually. But if your
character is symmetrical or something
like mine, and you see like it says
field to mirror, just go ahead select
everything, then come up here to mesh
and then just choose snap to symmetry
and everything is just going to
symmetize your whole model. Make sure
everything is in the same place. Okay.
So now I'm going to go ahead. So this is
the cylinder for the leg. And to unwrap
a cylinder, we're going to need a seam
going down the middle. So something
around here. So, I'm just going to
select something around there. I'll hold
down control to just keep selecting.
Okay. And I'll just select to where I
marked out that seam at the top. So,
somewhere around there. I'll just
deselect that one. Okay. Something like
that. Ctrl E. I'm going to max him.
Okay. And now you can see once you have
maxed him, we have been able to unwrap
this left leg of the character. I'm just
going to control shift M to mirror that
over to the other side. Okay, something
like that. Ctrl E and I'm going to
maxim. And you're going to notice that
we have been able to unwrap the both
legs. Okay, that looks good. For the
hands, exactly the same thing. We're
going to I'm going to select this edge
right here. So, that's going to be the
bottom of the cylinder. And then I'm
going to select this other edge right
here. Okay. I'm going to mirror this one
over to the other side. Control shift M.
And just before I mark the seams, I'm
going to select another seam at the
bottom right here. So remember, I said
in the fundamentals, we want the seams
to not be so visible. So that's why I
picked a seam inside of here instead of
picking one on the side here. So I just
picked one inside here. And then also on
the arm right here, I'm just going to
pick one that's on the underside of the
arm cuz you're not going to see that one
as much. So I'm just going to select
something like this.
Okay. I'll mirror my selection over to
the other side with control shift M and
then Ctrl E. I'm going to mark seams
right there. You're going to notice this
right here at the arms. We have been
able to mark those seams. Also on the
neck, the neck is just like a cylinder.
So you can select this one. Ctrl E mark
seam. This seam right here I know is
going to be covered by the shirt. So I'm
okay with marking a seam right there.
And then I can come in up here. So
instead of selecting probably this one.
So if I zoom out, you notice that we can
see that seam a lot. So I'm just going
to select one right here. Okay.
Something like that. We're not going to
see that seam as much. So Ctrl E mark
seam. All right. That looks good. And
then this is also a cylinder. So we want
to mark a seam going across the length.
Ctrl E. And we're going to mark those
seams. And you can see right here, this
is the neck. All right. So, we have been
able to unwrap the legs, the hands and
the neck. I'm going to focus on the feet
and the hands next. [snorts]
So, on the feet, if you did theology
right, you should be able to select a
seam that goes across your feet model
like this. So, something like this. So,
you can just go ahead Ctrl E and then
you can mark seams right there. And then
I'm going to mirror this over to the
other side. Control shift M and then
Ctrl E and then mark seams. And by the
way, if you don't want to use the
shortcut Ctrl E, you can also still come
here up to edge. And then you can also
max this. It's the same options. Okay,
let's find where those are. So right
here, this is the top of the feet. So I
just selected this and I pressed L just
to select this island. So you can see
that that's the top of the feet right
here. I want to just separate these
ones. So I can come in here
and I can mark a seam right there. So
I'm just going to control shift M to
move this over to the other side. Ctrl E
and I'm going to mark same. Okay, now
it's looking good. Something like that
is looking good. So that's going to be
all for the feet. We have separated the
top side of the feet. I'm just going to
select L and then I'll come down here
just to select just the seam that we
marked. So those places that have seams
on them. I just want to limit my
selection to those places that have
seams. So we have been able to separate
the top part from the bottom part. All
right, we're going to do the exact same
thing for the hands right here. If you
did the topology correct, you should be
able to select a loop that goes around
here like this. Just to make it not go
throughout the whole body, I'm going to
select this face right here in face
selection mode. I'm going to hide those
faces. And then I'll just come back to
edge selection mode. I'm going to select
this. Okay, right here. I'm just going
to make manually select until I get to
this other seam so that I make sure that
we separate the top from the bottom. And
then on the other side, everything
should look good. I'm going to Ctrl E
and then I'm going to mark the seams.
And then you can see the hands right
there. I'm just going to mirror this
over to the other side. Control shift M
and then Ctrl E mark seams. And now we
are going to see the arms. And you can
definitely leave the hands like this.
But something I like to do is just to go
in and cut out the fingers. So I'm just
going to select the loops going around
the fingers. So these ones going around
the fingers. I'm just going to select
those.
Okay. I also go to the bottom and make
sure everything is selected. So I just
want to separate these fingers into
their own UV islands. So each of these
that you're seeing here is called a UV
island. So, I just want to separate the
fingers into their own separate UV
islands. I'll also select this ones
right here. I'm going to control shift M
to move it over to the other side. And
then Ctrl E. I'm going to mark out those
seams. Okay. And now we have something
that looks like that. And I think I've
made a mistake somewhere cuz I can see
that this did not mirror correctly or
this. Yeah, right here. I didn't select
this part. So, let me just go ahead and
select that part cuz I saw that it
didn't unwrap properly. So, I'm just
going to select that part. I'm going to
control shift M and then Ctrl E maxim.
Okay, now we have something that looks
more like that. So, you can see the
individual fingers are on their own UV
islands. Okay, something like that. I'm
going to alt H to unhide those parts
that we hid before. Okay. So now we have
been able to work on the feet, legs, the
hands, the and the the arms and the
legs. Now let's work on the torso a
little bit more. On the torso, we can
just separate the front side from the
back side of the torso. So I'm going to
just select this loop right here. Okay.
Ctrl E. Ctrl E to maxim. Control shift M
to mirror that over to the other side.
And then Ctrl E. I'm going to mark the
seam. And now let's see what we have.
Okay, we can see this still looks a
little bit distorted. So we can come up
here to actually make sure that we
separate the top or the front side from
the back side. Let's come here and let's
mark a seam. I'm going to mirror this
over to the other side and Ctrl E. I'm
going to mark a seam. Okay. And now you
can see what we have. And we can still
go in here and separate this edge at the
bottom here. So I'm just going to come
right there. Okay. I want to select this
edge. So just this edge that I just want
it to continue on. Okay. So control E
maximum.
And yeah, now we have something that
looks like this. So this is the back of
the torso and this is the front of the
torso. Okay. So now we have been able to
work on the torso. So now let's shift
our focus to the head. And the head is
actually very easy to do. First off,
let's just separate out the ear. So, the
head is the only thing left. So, we want
to go ahead and separate the ears. I'm
just going to select these loops right
here. Ctrl E maxim. I'm going to mirror
this over to the other side. Ctrl E and
maxim. Okay, something like that.
Let's see. Our UVs are still looking a
little bit too distorted. I'm just going
to select these loops at the back here.
And this seam, I'm able to mark this on
because I know this is going to be
covered by the hair. So, I'm not
bothered that this seam is just going
down the middle of the hair. And I'm
also just going to select
edges like this.
Okay. And then Ctrl E. You can mark
seams right there. And let me see what
this looks like. All right. And that's
definitely looking really nice. So, one
more thing that we're going to do, we're
going to separate the mouth bag. If I
just select this, we want to separate
the mouth back. And we also just want to
separate the inside of the eye, the eye
cavity from the rest of the face. So I'm
just going to select this one. Control
shift M to mirror it over to the other
side. I'm going to mark those seams. Now
those ones are going to go onto their
own separate TV islands. Then I also do
the same for the mouth. I just go inside
of the face right here. And I can select
this seam here. Okay, this seam is a
little bit too visible from the front.
So I'm just going to select this one,
Ctrl E, and I'm going to mark seams
right there. Okay. So that is going to
separate the mouth back. So this is the
mouth. Let's unwrap this a little bit
more so that it's not too distorted. I'm
just going to select this mouth. I'm
going to go over and press L. And then
I'm just going to press shift H to hide
every other thing. And then we can cut a
seam down the middle here. Ctrl E. I'm
just going to mark a seam right there.
Okay, this looks good. I'm going to
unhide every other thing. And you're
going to notice that when every other
thing was hidden and we marked a seam,
the mouse back took up the whole piece.
And that was because we unhided
everything. So just to make everything
go back to the way it should actually
be, I'm just going to reselect one of
these edges that already marked in. And
then just to reset everything, I'm just
going to Ctrl E and then mark. And now
we have UVs that look like this. And let
me just cross check that we have
actually marked everything and we don't
have any distortions. So right here on
the ear, I'm not comfort comfortable
with the way this looks. I'm just going
to go ahead. We're going to separate the
front part of the ear from the back part
of the ear. So I can just select this
edge going here.
Okay. Something like that. So just
making sure that those seams are not too
visible. Okay. They won't be too
visible. Ctrl E. Max seam. I'm going to
move this over to this other side. Ctrl
E. And I'm also going to mark seams
right there. Okay. Now, I'm just going
to take a look at this and make sure
that there are no distorted parts of the
character of the UVs. And yeah, I think
the UVs are looking really nice right
now. Okay. So, the next step that we
wanted to take a look at is to fix
stretching. So, what exactly is
stretching? And I'm just going to go
back to the UV workspace
on our UVs here. Now that everything is
laid flat. So this is an interpretation.
These UVs here are is an interpretation
of what we had in 3DS. Now that some of
these faces are flat, some of these
might actually be stretching. So to
check that these are not stretching,
let's come up here and let's just check
UV stretch. So just check that UV
stretch right there. And what you want
to Okay, just before we start looking at
that, let's come here. I'll change this
from outline to black just so that we
can see this a little bit better. And we
can uncheck faces. So yeah, uncheck
faces just so that this is a little bit
easier to see on the UVs. What we want
to avoid if you see any part going like
becoming too yellow or too red like
this, we want to avoid anything
happening like that. So if you see any
of the faces going towards the red color
that means that those faces are
stretching. So we want the faces or we
want all the pieces to be in this kind
of blue color. So that way we know that
nothing is actually stretching. And from
what we can see here we can see that
most of these UVs actually look good.
But we want to check that if we add
textures to this whether those textures
are going to stretch. So, let's actually
go ahead and let's add in a new texture.
So, to do that, I'm just going to Yeah,
we can see we're in edit mode. I'm going
to go to the materials. I'm going to
come here and I'm going to create a new
material. I'm going to just call this UV
checker.
All right. And under the base color
here, I'm going to create an image
texture. I'm going to create a new image
texture. I'm going to call this UV grid.
So, we're going to load up a grid right
there. And for the width and the height,
I'm just going to change this into a 4K.
So you can type 1,24
* 4. And it's going to do the math. And
it's going to bring up 4,096.
So I can just Ctrl C to copy this and
paste this right here. And the color, we
can leave that as black. We going to be
using a color grid. Okay. So I'm going
to select color grid and I'm going to
select new image. All right. Right here,
you're going to see that image loads up.
So, we just see the texture. If we go
into material preview mode, we going to
see the texture. But I just want to work
in solid mode. So, let's go up here.
Let's go to the view port shading. Let's
change our object color to texture. All
right. Now, we can see this a little bit
more. Okay. So, what we want right here,
I'm just going to close this. I don't
want to see the image right here. Just
so I can just see this a little bit
better. So, what we want right here, if
you notice right here on the chest,
you're going to notice that these
letters here are getting a little bit
stretched than the one that you see
right here. Let's also check on the
fist. So, right here, you can see that
the size of the square right here is
definitely not the same right here. So,
if we were to add a texture to this,
something like a noise texture right
here is going to be really, really
stretched. So, we want to avoid those.
Let me just take a look at some other
parts. Okay, on the tools right here,
you can see how the letters are getting
stretched. So, we want to avoid this
when we are adding textures. And there
are a lot of ways that you can go about
fixing UV stretching. So, I'm just going
to show you the simplest and the most
easiest way for fixing UV stretching.
So, let's just go ahead and fix the UV
stretching on the feet right here. I'm
just going to select this with L. Okay.
And then I'll zoom into this. And you
might notice that when you press U to
bring up the UV unwrapping menu, we have
three options here. So we have the
unwrap angle base, we have the unwrap
conformal, and we have the unwrap
minimum stretch. So you can already
start to see the one the option that
we're going to use. Since we want
minimum stretching, we going to be
unwrapping with minimum stretching. This
one is the default that Blender normally
uses. The unwrap conformer is more for
simpler objects. If we try to use that,
it's not going to give us a really good
result. Especially for characters, you
really want to use that one for really
simple objects. So, you can just press U
to unwrap. And then we are going to use
unwrap minimum stretch. So, let me just
select these other ones right here. I'm
going to L to select these ones and then
U. And I'm going to unwrap with minimum
stretching. Okay. And if we zoom in
here, you can start to see that the size
of square that we have here is get
starting to get similar to the size that
we have right here. And I'm just going
to turn on the subdivision in edible
mode just so that it smooths out the
shapes that we have here. I'm just going
to turn that on. Okay, you can start to
see that the size of squares that we
have now evened out across the whole
feet. You're also going to notice that
the feet here are using a lot more
texture space than the rest of the body.
So, what I'm just going to do here is
select all. I'm going to come up here to
UVs and then I'm just going to say
average islandscape. Don't worry that
these are overlapping each other now. We
going to come back and arrange the UVs.
That's going to be our last step. So if
I just take a look at this, I can see
that this is looking good. So there's
really no much stretching here. Again,
they see a little bit, but it's not
much. But I can leave with that one.
Okay, something like that is looking
good. I'm going to go to some other
areas that are stretching. Let me check
on the fingers here. Okay, on the
fingers here. Yeah, we have some
stretching. So, I'm just going to select
these ones.
Ctrl L to select this. I'm also going to
mirror this over to the other side. And
then U. I'm going to unwrap it minimum
stretching.
Okay. And then I'm going to select all
UV average island scale just so that we
have the same letters, the same sizes
across the whole UVs. Okay. Now we have
something that looks like this. On the
chest right here, I can select this
front part of the torso U and unwrap it.
Minimum stretching and UV. I'm going to
select average island scale. Don't worry
about this. We're going to fix that only
down. Okay, let me just check for these
areas where we have stretching on the
ears. Right here we have stretching. I'm
going to select both sides U and unwrap
with minimum 30 and going select all UV
average island scale.
Okay. And also on the face we have a
little bit of stretching. So I'm just
going to select the face U and unwrap it
minimum stretching. Okay. We still have
some things going on here. So these ones
we have to go in and fix them up
manually. You can see right here on the
nose the size of the squares are a
little bit bigger than all the other
parts. So we are going to go ahead and
we are going to fix this up. So I'm just
going to one more time come in here and
we're going to select the average island
scale. So there are a lot of way lot of
fancy ways that you can use to minimize
the stretching. But since we have this
option to unwrap with stretching that's
the option I'm going to be showing you
how to do in this chapter. So, let's go
ahead and let's move on to the next
step, which is going to be to arrange
our UVs. Okay, I'm going to go back to
the UV editing workpiece. I'm going to
select all UVs and then I'm just going
to pack this island. Don't worry, we are
still going to arrange it something more
than this. But I just wanted to pack it
so that everything is in one UV. So, I'm
going to select all of these and I'm
just going to move this over to the
side. All right. If you still remember,
we had some stretching right here on the
mouth and also on the nose. So, I'm
going to go ahead and I'm going to fix
up the stretching there. I'm going to
select the head and I'm just going to
move it into the UV grid. I actually
want it to be in the center of the UV
grid. So, if you want any of these UVs
to be in the center, you can just select
it and then press N to bring up the
sidebar and then under the UV vertex,
the X and Y coordinates, you can change
that to.5. Okay, I'm also just going to
rotate this on the X-axis by 180°
so that we have something that looks
like this. Okay, so we are going to need
to fix up the stretching that we had on
the mouth. So to fix this now, I'm going
to show you why we turned on live VB
unwrapping. So we turn that on because
we're going to be using a lot of pins
and what pins are. So, if I just select
any of this vertx here and I press P,
it's going to pin the vertex. And with
live UV unwrapping enabled, if I press G
to move this, you're going to notice
that if I move this, every other part of
the UV is moving. So, if I just unpin
this, you're going to notice that that's
not the same behavior. So, if I just
move it, it's just going to move this
part. But since we have these pins here,
every other thing is going to move
relative to these pins. So, I'm just
going to pin this center right here. I'm
going to select this center.
I'm just going to select the center
right here. I want this to be right in
the middle of the UV grid. So, I'm going
to make use of the 2D cursor. So, just
like in the same way the 3D view, we
have the 3D cursor right here. So, in
the 2D workspace, we also have the 2D
cursor. I'm going to move the 2D cursor
directly to the center. So, I'm going to
go to view and I'm going to change the
location of the 2D cursor to.5.
Okay. And now I can scale this S X and Z
to just scale this on the X-axis while
making sure that the 2D cursor is our
pivot point. So, I'm just going to scale
this once again. I'm just going to Ctrl
Z there
and I'll make sure that my pivot point
is the 2D cursor and then S X and zero.
I'm just going to place that right
there. Okay, that has not still fixed
our stretching for us. I was just making
sure that the UV map is in the middle.
Now, to fix this stretching, we're going
to need to come in and adjust some of
the vertices on the face in the UV
editor right here. So, I can select this
one. I can push this down. And you're
going to notice since we are pushing
this part or this vertx that is pinned,
every other thing is going to move
relative to those vertex. So, if I was
just pushing a normal vertex, this is
the reaction that you're going to get.
But since these are pinned, I'm just
going to G and Y to move this one down.
Okay. And just before I start doing
that, I don't want any other parts of
the UVs to change. So, I'm going to pin
down this part right here. Also going to
pin down right here. So, I just don't
want these edges to change cuz those
parts actually look fine. I don't want
them to change. I'm also just going to
come here and I'm going to pin the eyes
here. going to also pin the eyes. And
then I'll just pin the ears cuz these
sides look fine. So I don't want those
to change. So I'm just going to pin
those. And now I can select this and I
can just push this down. I'm actually
going to just pin all of these. And then
we can select this. We can move them
down. Okay. I'm going to select these
ones and move these ones up. And you
want to be careful while doing that so
that Blender doesn't do something like
what you just did there. So, I'm just
going to move this one up. Something
like this. And I'm going to pin all of
these. Actually, I just pin the sides so
that Blender knows that we want to keep
the UVs. And instead of doing that, I
can select all of these. I'm going to
use the pivot point, the medium pivot
point, S and Y to scale this. And yeah,
I'm just going to scale this down to
something like this. I'm just going to
do that again. S and Y. And if we keep
on scaling it down, it's going to go
back to where it was. I'm just going to
scale it down to something like this.
Just to close the mouth
a little bit more. Okay. If we go back
in here and we start refining the shapes
right here. So, if I just bring this one
down here, you're going to notice that
we actually moving this grid. So, you're
going to notice that we are affecting
the texture. G and Y. I'm just going to
move this down here. Okay. I'm also just
going to bring this one down here.
Yeah. And you can start to see if we
straighten that out. I'm going to bring
this one down
a little bit more. I'm just going to
keep on adjusting this one
just so that we straighten out the
texture right there. So, that's exactly
what I'm doing right now.
the G and Y. I'm just out the texture.
All right. Now, we have something that
looks a lot more cleaner on the mouth
right there. I'm going to adjust this a
little bit
right there. And let me also adjust the
bottom bits. So, G and Y. I'm going to
bring this one up. I'll say the same
thing right here.
And also the same thing right here.
Okay, you can start to see that we're
cleaning that up a little bit more. I'm
going to G and Y to move this one.
And also G and Y to move this one. And
also G and Y. And actually, if you don't
want the EVs to actually keep on
updating, you can come up here and then
just turn off the live unwrapping. So I
can just adjust this for now.
Okay. And I'm going to adjust the UVs
until everything starts to look good on
the lips.
Okay. And something like that is going
to look good for the lips. Okay.
All right. We can definitely go ahead
and I'm going to pin some of these. Just
going to pin the rest of the mouth right
here. P to pin this. I'm also going to
pin these other areas right here.
And I'm going to pin right here. And
something that we can actually do
instead of moving each of these vertices
one by one, you can come here and we can
make use of this grab UVs brush. So we
have this brush. If we increase the size
with F, we can just adjust the shape of
the UVs. So, you're going to notice now
if I just shift it, you're going to see
the changes happening. Just so that we
can make sure that there's no stretching
on these UVs when we start to add
textures. I'm just going to move these.
Okay, I'm going to start moving this
bottom ones too, just so that we don't
have any stretching right there. I'm
also going to do the same on the nose.
Okay, I'm just going to go back to the
selection brush right there. I'm going
to select these.
So, I'm just going to select these ones
right here.
And then I'm going to tin them. Okay.
And then I'll go back to the grab brush
here. And I'm just going to adjust. So,
I just want the same size of square on
the nose. So, I'm just going to adjust
this. So, we can start to adjust what we
have right here.
Okay. And make sure not to make any
mistakes.
I'm just going to push some of this
back.
Okay. [clears throat]
I'm also going to adjust this side here.
Okay. Something like that. So, I'm also
going to adjust this.
And I'm just going to adjust this side
to make sure that everything is looking
good.
Okay. So, something like that is
definitely looking good. I've been able
to resize this. All right. Something
like that is definitely looking a lot
better. I'm also just going to use the
grab brush just to push this into place.
All right, this is looking good. And
also another use of the pins. If we
select this and we unwrap because we
have every other thing pinned, you're
going to notice that those pin parts
remain the same. So if I unwrap it angle
based, you're going to notice that all
those other parts still remain the same.
So I'm just going to Ctrl Z. Now we have
something that looks like this on the
eyes right here. Keep in mind that the
eyes are actually going to close. So
when this eyes close, we don't want our
to get stretched. So the way we are
going to do that for the eyes, we're
going to select these edges right here.
I'm just going to select these. I'm just
going to select this in the 3D view port
just so that it selects also in the UVs.
Okay. And we're going to scale this
down. So S and Y, we're going to scale
this down. Make sure no other thing is
selected. So these parts are the other
parts to the eye cavity. Just make sure
to deselect those. And then I come in
here. S Y. I'm going to scale this down.
Okay. So we have something that looks
like this.
All right. And now if you go back in
here, you can now see that if we if
these eyes are closed, the textures here
that looked compressed right now are not
going to be stretched once the eyes are
closed. So that's exactly the way we
want it.
Okay. And this is going to look good for
the face UV unwrap. So we're not going
to be using any I'm not going to be
showing you how to mirror the UVs of
this cuz we're going to be keeping it
very very simple for this master class.
So, I'm not going to be showing you how
to mirror the UVs. We're just going to
be manually placing down the UV. So,
that's the stretching that I'm going to
fix on the face. So, now I believe we
have been able to fix stretching on
every other part. So, now we're going to
move on to the next step, which is going
to be to arrange these UVs a little bit
more nicely. So, I'm going to go into
the UV editing workspace, and we can go
ahead and we can start to arrange these
UVs a little bit nicely. I'm going to
maximize this view right here. I'm going
to select this one and I'm just going to
move it right here. I'm also just going
to scale the face up. And a little bit
of warning when you're scaling things up
in the UV editor. So, we're going to be
using we're going to be placing all
these right here. You're going to notice
if I scale the face up, you're going to
notice how the letters here are much
smaller compared to these other parts.
So we keep in mind what's happening
there. As we are scaling up the face,
it's taking up more space on this
texture grid. So you can see the text
becoming smaller. So if you're scaling
up anything, just keep in mind that it's
going to take more texture space. That
means that part is going to have more
resolution than other parts that don't
have the same scale. So if we went in
here, let me just select the legs and we
scale this down. You can see the way the
letters are becoming much bigger. So
just keep that in mind that now that we
have scaled down the legs, the legs are
not going to have as much resolution as
the face. So always keep that in mind if
you're going to be scaling anything.
Right here with the face, I'm
comfortable with the face having more
resolution or more texture than other
parts of the body cuz the face is going
to be much more visible than other
parts. So I want more resolution and
more texture on the face. So I'm
completely fine with scaling up the
face. So, I'm just going to scale this
and place this somewhere around here.
All right. Now, let's go ahead and let's
just logically place these UVs. So,
right here, I'm going to select this
seam. And this one is the right part of
the character. So, I'm just going to
place this and I'm also going to place
it on the right side of the UVs. So, I'm
going to place this right here. Okay.
I'm going to select the other arm right
here. And I'm also just going to place
it right here.
Something like this. And also something
we want to do at this stage is just to
make all the letters stand up straight.
So right now you can see this on the to
the letters are upside down. So you just
want the letters to stand straight. Uh
to make sure everything is readable. So
I'm just going to place this one right
here. And you can see the way all the
letters are actually very readable.
Okay. I'm going to go ahead and I'm just
going to select the legs right here.
This is the right leg of the character.
So, I'm going to place this one right
here.
Okay. I'm also going to select this left
leg and I'm going to place it right
here. Definitely you don't want any
overlapping on the UVs except you know
what you're doing, but you don't want
generally you don't want any overlaps on
the UVs. So, I'm just going to place
these ones right here. We might need to
scale this one down just from based on
what I'm seeing. We might need to place
other objects here. So, I'm just going
to scale these ones down like this. But
also keep in mind that we have less
texture resolution now that we're
scaling this down. But I'm going to be
fine with that since we're not going to
really see the leg as much. So, I'm just
going to place this one here. And I'm
also just going to place this one right
here. Something like this. I could place
the leg something like this. Okay, I'm
going to go ahead. I'm also going to
align the torso right here. I'm going to
rotate this. And you can hold down
control to snap the UV islands,
the rotation of the UV island. So, you
can when rotating, you can hold down
control just to snap it. So, I'm just
going to place this somewhere around
here.
Okay. Something like this. And for this
other part of the torso, I'm going to
rotate this one. And I'm going to place
it right here. And for the torso, I'm
actually going to select this two. I'll
go to I'll change my P point to the
individual origins. I'm going to scale
this one down. Okay. Just so that we
have some more space here. I'm just
going to place it something like this.
You definitely don't want any
overlapping here. So, I'm just going to
move this.
Make sure they're not overlapping each
other.
Okay, something like this. Let me go
ahead and let me place the neck. So for
the neck right here. And by the way, if
you select EV island and it selects. So
let me just select it in the 3D view.
You're going to see that it's also
selecting all those other vertices that
are connected to it. And if you move,
it's actually going to move all those
other vert. And we don't want that to
happen. So just make sure you're in face
selection mode so that that doesn't
happen. So, you can move the neck to
somewhere around here. And just to leave
space for some other things, I'm
actually going to move the neck up here.
I can select the head and just bring
this one down. And then I'm also just
going to bring this one right here into
the UV space. Okay, now we have
something that looks like that. Let me
go ahead and let me place those eye
cavity. So, I'm just going to select
those eye cavity. I'm going to place
this one here. I'm going to place this
one right here. And I'll just make sure.
Okay, this one is the left side of the
character. So, I'm going to place it
right here. I can just rotate it and
place it somewhere around here. Also,
the same thing for this right eye
cavity. I'm just going to place it right
here.
Okay. And I'm going to also place the
ears. So, for the ears, I can select the
ears right here. So, this is the right
ear. I'm just going to place it. Oh,
this is the left ear. I'm just going to
place it right here. And since I scaled
up the textures on the face, I will also
just scale up the ears so that the face
and the ears have roughly the same
texture size. Okay, I'm going to select
this other part of the ears. I'm going
to bring this in right here. I'm going
to rotate it and place it right here.
I'm also just going to scale this one up
just like we did for the other side. And
then for the back of the ears, I can
select this ones and place them right
here.
Can also scale this one up a little bit.
And I'll select this other side of the
ear. And I'm going to place it right
here. I'm going to rotate that and place
it scale it up a little bit. Okay. Now
we have something that looks like this.
Now let's go ahead. Let's lay out the
feet. And for the feet, I'm actually
just going to select all of these. And
the feet, I know that they're not going
to be seen as much because they're
actually going to be inside the shoes.
So, I'm just going to scale this UV
island down. You don't need as much
texture resolution on this part. So, I'm
just going to start bring this here. I'm
just going to place this appropriately.
You definitely don't want any
overlapping. So, I'm just going to bring
this down here. I'm going to place them
appropriately. So, right here, I can
have something that looks like this.
Okay, I'm going to make sure that these
are not overlapping. I'll move this one
up a bit just to make sure we don't have
any overlapping geometry there. Then,
I'm going to select this one. This one
is for the right side, for the left side
of the character. I can rotate this one
and place it right here.
Okay. I'll make sure that they're not
overlapping.
Okay. And the text right there looks
readable. Okay. So, that's nice. I'm
going to rotate this one and place it
right here. Also, this is the bottom.
Like, this is the under side of the leg.
So, I can scale this one down a little
bit more. So, I'm just going to place it
right here. And here, I'm going to move
this one. I'm also just going to adjust
this one. And I'm also just going to
adjust the placement of this one. I can
select these two and just scale them
down if needed.
Okay. Something like that. Just to make
sure there are no intersections.
And I can just place this one right down
here. Okay. I'll make sure that these
two are the same size. I'll place this
one right there. Okay.
Now we have something that looks like
this. That looks fine. That's looking
good so far. I'm going to select these
two and just scale them down a little
bit. Keep in mind of what I said about
scaling down these objects earlier on.
Okay. And now we have these left. So let
me just check which objects these are.
So we have the mouth bag left and we
have the rest of the palms and the
fingers. So, I'm just going to place the
mouth bar somewhere around here.
Okay. And then for the rest of the
fingers, I'm just going to lay them out
this way in these remaining spaces that
we have. So, for the this part right
here, I'm just going to select this.
Okay, I know that that's the left side
of the character. I'm going to move it
to the left side of the UVs. I'm going
to rotate this one. Place it right here.
Also, this one I'm going to rotate it.
Place it somewhere around here. Okay.
I'm just going to move this one to this
side.
Something like this.
Okay. And I'm going to place the thumb
right here. So, I'm just going to select
the thumb.
I'm going to move this one right here.
I'm just going to rotate this. Place
this one here. I'm going to select this
other one and place it right here. Okay.
For the rest of the fingers, I'm just
going to lay them out this way. So, I'm
going to start from the pinky
and I'm going to move this one right
here. I'm going to go to the middle
finger. Is that the middle finger? No,
that's the ring finger. Going to place
this one right here. I'll rotate this
just to make sure everything is
following roughly the same scale
and the same orientation. So, I'm going
to place this right here.
And also place this one right here. I'll
move on to the middle finger. I'm going
to place this one right here. I'll just
orient it to face the same direction.
And then the index finger. I'm going to
place this one right here. Okay. Now, we
have something that looks like this. And
then I'm going to select the bottom side
of the index finger. I'm going to place
this one right here.
The bottom side of the middle finger.
I'm going to place this one right here.
And then the bottom side of the ring
finger. I'm going to place this one
right here. Then the bottom side of the
pinky finger. I'm going to place this
one right here. Okay. So this is the
layout that we used for the hands right
there. I think that looks good. Now I'm
going to select this other side of the
hands. So this is the right side of the
hand. I can place this right here.
And then I can also just place this ones
right here.
Something like that.
I'm just going to let me see. I'm going
to push these ones down a little bit
just so that we have some more space
here. I'm going to select this ones and
then just move them here. And then I'm
going to place the fingers right here.
Okay. So, let me just go ahead. I'm
going to select the pinky finger and I'm
going to move this one right here. I'm
going to rotate it facing downwards.
Okay. Something like this. I'm going to
select the ring finger. I'll place it
right here. and select the top of the
middle finger. I'm going to place that
one right there. And select the top of
the index finger and place this one
right here.
Okay. And then I'm going to select the
bottom
of the index finger.
I'm going to place this one right here.
You can actually just start this side.
I'm going to select the bottom of the
middle finger.
I'm going to place this right here.
I'm going to select the bottom of the
index finger. Is that the bottom of the
ring finger? Yeah. I'm going to place
this here.
And then the bottom of the pinky finger.
I'm just going to place this one right
here. And then let's go ahead and let's
place the thumb. I'm just going to move
this one right here. Going to rotate
this one. Place it right here. Going to
deselect this one. Then move this one
and place it somewhere around here.
Okay. So now with this, we can readjust
this.
Okay. We can actually place the neck and
the bottom here. I don't see why not.
Okay. Uh, I'm just going to adjust some
of these. I'm going to move this one
inside here.
And let's see. Could definitely leave
the UVs to be like this. I'm just going
to select all of these. So, what now I'm
just doing is just to So, what I'm doing
right now is just to arrange the UVs and
just make them look nice so that I can
actually understand them if I come back
in and look at this later on. So, that's
just all I'm doing at this stage. I'm
just going to push this around and make
sure that I've utilized all this space
on the UV grid.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like this. And this is not looking too
bad for our character. All right. So,
I'm just going to zoom out here and I'll
make some last adjustments on this.
Okay. I'm just going to move this. And
now, something like this for UV map for
this character is going to look good.
You can definitely go ahead and arrange
your UVs in a different way than I've
arranged my own. You can definitely go
ahead and do the same. Just make sure
you like the placement of everything.
And since we all have different
characters, your UV placement is
probably going to be different. But
that's how you're going to go ahead and
you're going to lay this down. So if I
just go back into object mode, if you're
in Blender 5.0 and above, you should see
the UVs even if you are in objects mode.
So this is looking good so far for the
UV layout of the character. Okay, I'm
going to isolate every other thing. And
we can actually hide the low poly
collection. We don't need to see this.
Now, we're going to move on to UV
unwrapping the shirts. and we're going
to use the exact same steps that we used
here. So, we're going to cut seams.
We're going to fix any stretching and
then we're going to arrange the UVs. I'm
going to go back to the UV editing
workspace. And on the shirt, we had
seams right here. So, let's just mark
those areas where we had seams. I'm just
going to select the areas. Ctrl E. And
then I'm going to mark seams. Since we
have live UV unwrapping enabled, it's
going to unwrap the mesh right here. But
you can still see we have a lot of
distortion going on. So, we need to do a
lot more work on this shirt. So, on
shirts, you normally see a seam going
down this way. You also see a seam going
down this way. So, I'm just going to
select these
and I'll just make sure that I have the
seam selected on both sides. Okay. For
the sleeves right here, I'm going to
deselect these parts. So, I don't need
to cut right here since we have already
cut this bottom. I'm also just going to
deselect this part on the other side
and Ctrl E. I'm going to maxim. Okay.
Now you're going to see what we have
right here. And if you remember, we left
some geometry inside of our character.
So just to emulate or just to give the
idea of solidification on the clothes,
we left some of these other parts of the
meshes inside. So this part you can
either come in here and you can ctrl E
and maxim to separate that from the
rest. But I'm actually just going to
leave those. And this is going to be the
UV map for the shirt. So it wasn't as
complicated as we had for the character.
So let's just go ahead and let's clean
up any stretching to see if we have any
texture stretching. I'm going to go to
the materials and I'm going to add in a
UV checker texture right here.
And
I don't see any much stretching. So I
believe that since we had the live UV
unwrapping, it was actually using the
last UV unwrap option that we used. So
it unwrapped any everything with minimum
stretching. Okay. So you can see there's
really no stretching on the colors right
here. If we unwrap with the normal angle
beast, then you can see there's like
some stretching. But since we unwrapped
with minimal stretching, you can see
everything is actually looking really
nice. Okay, so we have been able to fix
the stretching and then let's just go
ahead and let's arrange this hue. So to
arrange this, this one is going to be
really easy to do. I'm just going to
select this. I'm going to rotate this by
180. I'm going to place it right here.
We're going to bring this back part of
the shirt and place it right here. And
then these are the sleeves. I can place
these ones right here. Something like
this. I can also just move this one.
Place it right here.
Okay. I'm going to select these ones and
then just move it down. Something like
this. And then I'm going to place these
parts of the clothes right here.
Okay. And for the shirts, these are
looking nice. So, I'm just going to
select these ones and move them up a
little bit.
All right. Something that looks like
this. Nice. Okay. This is definitely
looking good. I'm just taking a look
right here. And yeah, definitely the
seams are looking good.
All right. So, this is going to be for
the shirt. The shirt was really easy to
do. Let's go ahead and let's work on the
skirt. If I add in the UV checker
texture, you're going to notice that we
have no UVs on this. So, let's go ahead
and let's start marking seams. So, we
can mark seams right here where we
originally had seams on the skirt. So,
I'm just going to mark those seams right
there.
Ctrl E. I'm going to mark the seams
right there. You're going to start to
see something is unwrapping since we
have not yet unwrapped this part of the
skit. You can see how the textures are
like stretching. If we were to add a
texture like an actual texture instead
of this grid texture, we definitely
don't want that to be happening. So,
we're going to go ahead and for this
clothes I could I'm going to select
right here and I'm just going to
actually I'm going to select right here.
Ctrl E to mark this seam.
Okay. Something like that. I'm going to
select these faces on the inside here.
And I'm going to hide those ones for now
because I want to select I'm going to
just make sure I'm in face selection
mode. I'm going to hide those so that it
doesn't give us those edges that we had
there before. So I'm going to make sure
I'm in selection mode and hide that. And
then right here I'm going to select
something like that. So it makes sense
if there was a seam right there. So I
can just select that and also select
right here. And then I'm also just going
to select
this part of the seam.
Okay. Ctrl E. We can mark the seam right
there. I'm going to mirror this over to
the other side. Control shift M.
And Ctrl E. I'm going to mark the seam
right there.
Okay. [snorts] Something like that is
looking good. I'm just going around
seeing how what this is looking like.
And you can start to see we have the
textures laying really nicely on the
sket. So I'm going to select right here.
And then I'm going to select right here.
I'm going to select this. I'm just going
to go all the way up until where we mark
seams right here. Ctrl E. We're going to
mark that seam. And then control shift
M. Ctrl E. And then we're also going to
mark seams right there. All right. I'm
going to select all U and unwrap with
minimal stretching. Okay. And right here
you can see we have the texture skewing.
So we don't want that to happen. So I'm
going to need to cut a seam somewhere
around here. So I'm just going to select
that right there. And I'm just going to
cut a seam. Ctrl E. Max seam. Control
shift M. I'm going to mirror that edge
over to the other side. Ctrl E. And I'm
just going to mark a seam there. Okay.
And you can start to see we have less
stretching of our textures. And this is
actually looking good for the sket. I'm
going to unhide every other thing. And
I'm just going to mark this seam once
again.
Okay. And right here, just on the inside
of the sket, we can we can mark a seam
right here. So you can see, you can
notice the way this texture is skewed on
this one. So I'm just going to control
E, mark the seam there. Control shift M
to mirror that and mark the seam over to
the other side. Okay, something like
that is looking definitely looking good.
So now let's go ahead. We have been able
to fix the texture stretching and we
have been able also been able to mark
seams. So now let's go ahead and let's
arrange the seams. One way you can do
this is to select all UVs and then you
can actually use the pack islands option
and let's see the results that gives us.
So it gives us the same result. I don't
necessarily like this. So I'm just going
to manually place this. I'm going to
come in here. I'll select these ones and
I'm just going to move this one into
place. I'm going to rotate this. Place
it right here.
Okay. I'm also going to place this one
right here.
Uh, I'm going to place this ones right
here.
So, if I'm correct, this is the back and
this is the front. Okay, nice.
I'm just going to select this one, move
it right here.
Okay, something like this. And we can
see the way the textures are standing
upright or the letters are standing
upright. That's exactly what we want.
I'm just going to select this part of
the sket right here.
And also this one. I'm going to just
start moving them into place. I'm going
to select this one and rotate this one
like this. I select this one, rotate it
like this.
And I can select this one, rotate it,
place it right there. Also select this
one and place it right here.
I'll just make sure that these are
standing straight up.
I'll move these in.
All right. And we have something that
looks like this. All right. Let's
lay out some of these other parts. And
this one right here is the inside of
this kit. You're not going to be seeing
this part as much. So, can rotate this
I can just scale it down a little bit
cuz you might still see this part. So,
I'm not just going to scale it down all
the way to something like this. I just
scale it down a little bit. And I'm
going to place this one right here.
And then I'm also just going to repeat
this one. And then I'll just place it
right here.
Okay.
I'm going to place it right here. You
want to make sure that there are no
overlaps. So, I'm just going to move
this one. I can scale this one down cuz
I know this is the inside of the skit.
So, I'm just going to scale this side
down.
And
I'm going to place these ones right
here.
All right.
Now we have something that looks like
this for the skit. And if we go back
into object mode, you're going to notice
how we have everything looking really
nice and really sharp. All right. I like
the way the sket is looking. All right.
Here for the shoes, you're going to
notice on the shoes I have different
pieces. So I have this part of the shoe.
Then I have this part, then I have this
part, then I have this other part. So
what we can actually do is just to
select all of these. and we're actually
going to unwrap them on the same UV
grid. So, they are going to share the
same UV map. So, let's just select all
of these. Let's go into edit mode and
we're going to start unwrapping this.
So, I'm just going to shift H to isolate
just the boot for now. And the boot is
actually really simple. We can just come
down here to the back and Ctrl E map in
a seam right there. And it's going to
really try it best to map everything out
nicely. I'm going to add the UV checker
texture here. So you can see we have
some skewing. So we might need to go in
and manually take this for now. That's
fine. I'm going to select a seam right
here. The inside of the boots. Okay,
that looks good. Right here. I'm going
to leave this side as is. Let me just
see if I control E and mark a seam right
there. What does this look like?
Okay, I'm going to mark a seam. I'm
going to leave that seam right there. I
like how this is looking.
Okay. And then for the other parts,
every other thing is looking nice. I'm
going to unhide every other thing. I'm
going to add the UV checker texture to
this. So this because these are
different objects, you need to add the
UV texture, the UV checker to these
different objects. So I'm just going to
select these one. Shift H to hide every
other thing. And these ones are really
simple. This is just like unwrapping a
really elongated cube. So I'm going to
select this. Ctrl E. I'm going to mark a
seam right there. I'm also going to mark
a seam at the bottom right there. And
I'm just going to do that for all of
these. Ctrl E. You can also press shift
R to repeat your action. So, I'm just
going to do that. Shift R to repeat my
action.
And then
I'll make sure I have the correct one
selected. Shift R to repeat my action.
And then we don't want this like call on
itself. We can select this right here
and also this edge right here. Ctrl E
maxim. So we want it to unwrap something
more like this. So I'm just going to
select that seam right there. And also
and just make sure I have the correct
one. I'll select that seam.
That seam right there. Okay. Ctrl E. I'm
going to mark that one as same. Okay.
I'll also do the same right here.
Ctrl E. Mark that in there.
And
I'm going to select this one. Right.
Yeah. And then shift R. We can repeat
our action. I can see how these are this
has UV unwrapped really nicely. I'm
going to unhide every other thing. This
right here, I'm just going to add the UV
checker texture to that.
Okay. And I'm going to come in here.
Ctrl E. I'm going to mark the seam right
there. Okay. I'm just going to isolate
these two for now. Shift H to hide them.
I'm also just going to come in here,
control E, mark a seam right there, and
I'll unwrap this. Okay, nice. I'm going
to make sure live EV unwrapping is
turned on. Okay, I'm going to just
select this. Ctrl E. We can mark a seam
right there. Okay, that is looking good.
This one is going to look really nice.
Actually, I'm going to remove the seam
from there. And I'll just mark it at the
bottom here cuz I know one of the straps
covers the seam. So, Ctrl E. I'm going
to mark a seam right there. I'm going to
unhide every other thing. Right. And
we're left with the sole of the shoe
right here. So, I'm going to add in the
UV checker texture. I'm going to select
this and just shift H to isolate this.
And we can go ahead and we can unwrap
this. You can I can select this edge
right here or this edge right here.
I'm just going to go around.
Ctrl E. I can mark a seam right there.
Can also do the same at the bottom here.
Ctrl E. I'm going to mark a seam right
there.
I can come in here
and mark another seam. Ctrl E. Mark
seam. Okay. Right here. Let me see which
edge this is. Yeah, you can definitely
mark an edge right here. Also going down
here too. Control E marking.
And I'm going to mark another edge
right here.
So this one
I'm just going to select this and I'm
going to mark these edges.
Okay, I'm just going to mark to
somewhere around here. Ctrl E. I can
mark a seam there. And something I can
do is to come in here and I'm also just
going to mark a seam at the bottom here.
Okay. So something like that. And then
I'm going to extend this edge to reach
right there. And yeah, now I've been
able to wrap this really cleanly. I'm
going to alt H to unhide every other
thing. And um and just to reset the UVs
here, I can just select one of these
seams that we have already marked seams.
And I'm just going to go ahead E to mark
seams. And it's going to lay out the
UVs. Something like this. Okay, we had a
little bit of stretching
right here at the back of the boots. We
have a little bit of stretching. So we
can make use of the pins. I'm going to
select this. I'm going to pin this. I'm
also going to select this. And I'm also
going to pin this. And with those pinned
now, we can I can scale this on the
Yaxis. You just just notice right here
once I scale this S and Y, you're going
to see how we are getting rid of that
stretching. So I'm just going to S, Y,
and zero to scale it in the Y axis. And
then also the same thing right here. Now
we have get we have gotten rid of those
stretching right there.
Okay, something like that definitely is
good. And I don't see any other
stretching any other this right here. I
forgotten to mark a seam right here. So
I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going
to select this
control and let me just select these
other parts too.
Okay. Ctrl E maxim right there. And I'm
just going to alt P to clear everything.
And then I'm just going to
select this. Ctrl E maximum just to
reset everything. And then I'll go ahead
and I'll just pin these ones again. I'm
going to select this P to pin this. And
I'm going to pin this side and S and Y
and zero
to get rid of the stretching right
there. Okay. And that is looking really
nice right here. I'm going to see. So, I
don't like the way this is like doing
this. So, I find I'll find somewhere
else to mark a seam. I can mark another
seam right here. Ctrl E mark seam right
there. And you're going to notice that
this is not moving. And that's just
because we pinned this. So, when the
live wrapping takes place, you can see
that that's not moving. And that's just
because we pinned that. Okay. So, I'm
just going to select I'm going to select
or alt P to pin this to remove the pins
there. And then I'm just going to select
any of these edges maxing just to reset
everything. Then I'm going to come back
here. I'm going to pin this. This is the
dead time we are doing this now. So,
let's just go ahead S Y and Z to scale
this down. And then also S Y and Z to
scale this down right here. And then for
these ones right here, I'm going to
straighten them up. So right here, you
can see that the textures are a bit
skewed. So I'm just going to straighten
these ones up here. I'm going to pin
this. And we can scale this on the Yaxis
or on the X-axis by zero. Then I can
also pin this one here and do the same
thing right here. I'm going to sx and
zero. Okay. And now you're going to see
that we have definitely reduced and
minimized the stretching that we had
there. I'm going to do the same thing
right here. I'm going to pin these ones
and sx and zero to pin that here. I'm
going to pin these ones sx and zero. And
then I can also just pin these ones
and pin this side. I'm going to s y and
zero to scale that on the y axis.
Then also the same thing right here. I'm
going to scale that on the y axis. And
we have gotten rid of most of the
stretching right there. And on this part
right here,
I'm looking for this part. Is it? Okay.
Right here. Let's definitely go ahead
and straighten this one out a little bit
more. I'm going to pin this. I'm also
going to pin this. So, I'm going to
select this SX and zero. And also the
same thing right here. I'm also going to
go ahead and pin this on. Pin this ones.
I'm going to sx and zero to scale this.
And I'll do the same thing right here.
And now we have something that looks a
lot more like that. And that looks a lot
more cleaner to me. You can definitely
go ahead and keep on playing around with
the UVs. Just not to make this chapter
too long. I'm going to go ahead and I'm
going to call it right here. So, we need
to arrange the UVs. I'm going to go
ahead and I'm just going to arrange this
UV. I'm going to place this one right
here.
Okay. Something like this. And for some
of those parts that we are not going to
see. So I know we are not going to see
be seeing this part. So I can just bring
this right here. I'll make which I'm in
face selection mode. So I don't move
other parts. I'm going to bring this
right here. I can scale this one down
right here. I know we're not going to be
seeing that. So I'm going to scale it
down. Something like that. And
okay, I'm going to select all these
other ones. I'm just going to start
placing them just to arrange them a
little bit more.
So, I can place this one right here.
These straps right here.
I can select these. I'm just going to
select them in the 3D view port. And I'm
just going to line them up here.
Also the same thing right here. Just
going to place the ones at the bottom
here.
Okay. Something like this. I'm going to
place this right here.
All right.
And let me see which object this is.
Okay. This is not going to be seen as
much. So, I can select this, scale this
down, and just place this right here.
And this is the sole of the shoe.
Depending on the kind of design you're
doing on the sle of the shoe, you might
see it, or you might want it to be seen.
So, I'm just going to place this one
somewhere around here.
I'm going to place this one somewhere
around here. I'm going to place these
two
somewhere around here. I can scale these
ones up actually. I'll just place them
right here.
Okay, let me see. Then we have these
other parts. Yeah, I'm going to rotate
these ones right here. And I'll just
place them right here.
And these ones, which are these right
here. Yeah, I can just keep these ones
somewhere around here.
Okay, so this for the UVs of the shoe.
I'm happy with the way this looks. I'm
just going to readjust this just a
little bit more.
Okay. And we have some empty spaces.
That's completely fine. Since we are
using this character for animation, we
don't need to optimize the UV space as
much. Okay, I'm going to go back into
object mode. And you're going to notice
here that all these objects are using
the same UVs. If I just select them,
they're using the same UVs. All right,
so this is what you want to go ahead and
you want to do for the rest of your
character. You also want to do for the
eye. So, let me just go ahead and do it.
And for the eye right here, you're going
to notice that he already has a UV. This
was one of the assets that we downloaded
from Blender B meshes. So, this one
already has UV. So, if you add in the UV
checker right here, you can see how nice
that looks. Okay. Also, the same thing
for the tits, you're going to notice
right here that we have UVs. We're going
to notice that the tongue are like
outside of the UV grid. And this is
because they are using UD. So, udins are
something I'm not going to touch on in
this particular chapter. If you want to
know more about UD, you can join the
stylist Character Academy. I'm going to
be making a whole separate video inside
the styles academy about that. But I'm
not going to be using UD. We just going
to stick to one UV grid for now. So,
let's just go ahead and let's adjust
this. I'm going to select all of this.
Ctrl L to make sure I select everything.
And I'm going to just scale this down.
I'll change my pivot point back to
median. And I'm just going to scale this
down. Place this somewhere around here.
I'm going to rotate this. Place this
right here. I'm also just going to
delete this and place this right here.
And then I'm going to scale this on and
bring it down here.
And something like this is also going to
work. I'm going to add a UV checker
texture to this. So something like this
looks good. And I can see one of my
objects is now properly unwrapped.
So I'm just going to make sure that it's
actually not one of my objects. So I'm
just going to go through this and see
that I have UVs correctly on everything.
Okay.
So probably that one that was not UV on
raptor was one of the sculpt high poly
objects. But we don't need to worry
about any of those because we cannot
mark sims or lay the UVs for the high
poly objects. This is what you want to
go ahead and do on all the objects that
youized so far. You should have
something that looks like this to be
able to conclude this chapter. So, let's
just go ahead and let's summarize the
chapter. To summarize, UV maps are going
to allow you to apply textures on your
3D model. The whole reason we are
creating UV maps is to be able to apply
textures cuz like we said earlier,
textures are in 2D space. So, since you
have been working with a 3D model, we
need to flatten it so that we can be
able to apply textures. Now you now also
know that seams allow the model to open
and flatten into the UV space and you
also know the careful seam placement
that's going to help avoid visible
texture sims. You've also seen how we
have been able to do that while
unwrapping our character. So as usual if
you need any extra help if you want any
extra information about udims there
separate videos inside the sales cut
academy. So just go ahead and join the
sales academy. I'm going to be holding
your hand every step of the process. And
if you're loving the master class so
far, go ahead and leave a review of this
master class on Trust Pilot. Link is
going to be below this video. And I'll
catch you guys in the next chapter where
we are going to start grooming the hair
for our character. I'll see you guys in
the next one.
Welcome to chapter 10. In this chapter,
we are going to be taking a look at
grooming the hair for your character.
And our agenda for this chapter, first
off, I'm going to show you the approach
for creating different hairstyles. And
then I'll show you how hair grooming
works inside of Blender. I'm going to
show you my workflow for creating
different types of hairstyles. And then
I'm we are going to dive into Blender
and we're going to create different
hairstyles inside of Blender. Okay,
share this master class with someone.
Let's help more artists create work that
they are proud of. And for you right
now, this is the most important chapter
in the entire master class. So watch the
entire video. Don't skip and don't jump
around. All right, the approach for
different hairstyles. Hairstyles come in
a lot of forms, shapes, and sizes. So
it's important that we are able to
understand how the hair works and also
break down how the hair works so that we
can recreate it inside Blender. The only
way we are going to be able to
understand how the hair works is if we
analyze the hairstyle from references.
So we know that here comes a lot of
variations. So we need to be able to
understand the hairstyle so that we can
easily recreate it inside of Blender cuz
once we understand something then we'll
be able to recreate it very easily and
the only way we can understand it is
once we analyze the hairstyle from our
reference. So right now at this point if
you don't yet have references that
you're going to be using for your hair
grooming just go ahead and gather those
references. If you can get references
from the hair from all angles, that's
actually going to be really perfect. So
that you have a very clear idea of how
the hair works so that you can recreate
it inside of Blender. For any hairstyle,
here's a simple checklist of things to
look out for before you start creating
the hair inside of Blender. So first
off, just ask yourself this question.
Can we separate the hairstyle into parts
or into volumes? Or another way you can
see this is how can we make this hair
easier to groom inside of Blender. So
that's the first question that you're
going to ask. I'm going to show you some
examples here, but that's the first
question. And then the second question
is what is the flow and the direction of
the hair. If you can answer these two
questions correctly for any hairstyle
that you're going to be creating,
creating a hairstyle is going to be
really easy. So these two questions are
some of the core things that you need to
ask yourself before creating any
hairstyle. So let's just take a look at
some examples. So let's say we wanted to
create this hairstyle inside of Blender.
So the first question, can we separate
this hairstyle into parts? And the
answer for that will be yes. So instead
of trying to think of this hairstyle as
one hole, we can separate it into
different parts. So the way I would
approach doing this, so this can be a
separate part inside of Blender. This
one right here. There'll probably be
another one on the left side. And then
we can separate this one into its own
part. So this back part of the hair, we
can separate that into its own part. And
then right here we can separate this
part into its own part just like this.
So instead of thinking of the hair as
one big hair object, we can separate it
into different parts. So that is
actually easy for us to groom it.
Another part of this hair that we can
even add it is right here. So you can
use different objects for this part of
the hair inside of Blender. And then the
second question that you want to ask is
what is the flow and the direction of
this hair. For this one, just keep in
mind the way the hair is shaped. So
right here for the ponytail, you can see
the direction of the hair. So it's
coming down here. It's coming straight
and then it starts to twist just like
this and it starts to turn. So you can
see how that is different for each of
these hair right here. So if I just come
here, this one comes down and then it
fits this way. So these are just some
things that you want to keep in mind
before you start grooming the hair. If
you understand and analyze the way this
works before diving into hair grooming,
it's going to be really easy to be able
to recreate the hair inside of Blender.
Also the same thing here. You can see
the direction right here. This way. So
the direction is coming from right here.
Everything is being packed at the back
right here. Then everything is just
coming in this way just like this. You
can see at the bottom here there's a
different direction than we had for this
part right here. This one is a little
bit shorter. So just keep this in mind
before you start grooming the hair.
Let's take a look at another example
right here. So right here we have this
hairstyle. So for this hairstyle we can
break it down into two parts. can bring
it down into the left part right here
and also into the right part right here.
Okay. So, we can have something that
looks like this. And also for this
hairstyle, I can't see the back of this
hair. So, I don't have reference of the
back of this hair. But probably
something that I would do is also
separate the back into its own part. But
since I can't see I can't see the back
part of the hair, I can't see for now.
So this is why you need to gather
references from all angles so that you
actually have an understanding of the
head. So for from what I can see on the
reference, I'm just going to read it
into the left side and the right side.
And then let's take a look at the hair
flow. So right here we have the hair
coming down straight and then it starts
to wiggle something like that. It's
coming down straight here and then there
a lot of curves this way. Also the same
thing on the right side of the hair like
this. It's coming down straight and then
it start to go something like this. So
that is for this hairstyle. Let's take a
look at this one right here. Okay. So we
can separate this one into two volumes.
So I can separate this one into this
part that sits on the hair. Okay. And
then this other part right here. So the
bone on top of the hair. And then for
the direction of the hair right here.
You can see the way everything is coming
down here to the middle and everything
is just meeting up at the middle here.
Okay, so we have something that looks
like this. And then for this other upper
part of the bun, we can clearly see at
the direction we have a lot of coiness
and we also have a lot of noise on this
hair. So that is the direction and the
hair flow of this hair. Let's take a
look at another example right here.
Let's take a look at this one right
here. So for this particular hairstyle,
for this one, we could actually just
leave it as one volume this way. Okay.
And then for the hair flow, we can
definitely see a lot of noise right
here. So let me just write this out. We
have a lot of noise. And then the
hairstyle is also very curly. So just
keep that in mind before you start
grooming this hair. So I'm going to
leave a link for you to be able to
download this file. So you can just come
in here and identify the different parts
of the hair and also the hair direction
is going to be really important that
you're able to do this. So just go ahead
and download this file so that you can
come in here analyze this reference also
break down the hair into parts and then
also determine the hair flow. It's going
to be really useful exercise. So just go
ahead and do that. So that's the
approach for creating different kind of
hairstyles. Now let's take a look at how
hair grooming works inside of Blender.
So most times when we working with hair,
we are dealing with a lot of hair
strands. So the average human hair has
about 100,000 hair strands. And if we
were to create this in 3D, it will be
unreasonable trying to manage that many
hair strands. It's going to be really
difficult trying to groom or comb those
many hairs cuz that's a lot of hair. So
in Blender or in any other 3D software,
instead of trying to groom so many hair
strands, we are going to make a few
strands control the majority of the
hair. Or another way to see it, we are
going to control many with a few. So
here's how it works. We have this parent
hair right here. So that's the one that
we're going to focus on. That's the one
we're going to push and pull into shape.
And then we are going to use some
modifiers to add in children hair. And
those children hair are going to follow
the shape of the original parents hair
that we added in. So this few are going
to control many of the hair. So that's
why I said few strands controlling the
majority of the hair. We only going to
be focusing on this guide here. So this
is either called you can either call it
a guide hair or a parent hair. So I'm
going to be referring to it as guide
hair most of the time. So we're going to
be adding in guide hair inside of
Blender. And then we're going to use
modifiers to tell the children hair how
they should be on the hair. So the way
hair grooming works inside of Blender is
a similar concept to the way the
subdivision surface modifier works where
we control the shapes for our objects
just by using a few verses. So you can
just think of it in the same way. Okay.
So with hair grooming we want to create
sufficient enough parents here that will
control the entire hair. And we want to
be careful not to create too many or too
few parents hair because with too many
guide hair it becomes unreasonable to
comb the hair effectively. But if we
have too few guide hair we don't have
much control over the hair. So the sweet
spot in between this is exactly what we
are looking for where we don't have too
many or too few guide hair to control
the hair. Okay. So now that you know
this, I'm going to dive inside of
Blender and I'm going to walk you
through Blender's hair growing tools and
Blender's hair growing technique. Okay.
So right here I have this file right
here. I also leave this file below so
that you can play with this file. So
first things first that you need to know
for hair grooming. First off, you need a
scalp object. And the scalp object is
just essentially where the hair is going
to emit out from. So instead of trying
to place the hair on our character which
might become a little bit unefficient or
inefficient, we want to use a scalp
object like this. Okay, the scalp is
going to make the hair grooming very
very efficient. Okay, so once you have a
scalp object, another thing that you
want to keep in mind is to make sure
that you have UVs on your scalp object.
So something as simple as this. I'm
going to show you how to create a scalp
object very easily inside of Blender.
And I'm also going to show you how to
make simple UVs just like this. So I'm
just going to switch this back to the
asset browser and I'm going to explain
what all of these mean. But for now,
let's go ahead and let's add in a guide
here. So you can come up here to add
cove and we can add in an empty hair
right here. You're going to notice
nothing changes in the viewport. If we
come down here to the outliner, you're
going to notice that we have that curve
or the guide here parented to the scalp
object. Okay. And the way we are going
to be modifying this curve object is
either in edit mode or in sculpt mode.
For majority of the hair grooming, I
like to use the sculpt mode. So, let's
just go into the sculpt mode. Okay. And
you're going to see all these nice
brushes here that we can use to modify
the hair. So, I'm just going to quickly
walk you through what all these brushes
do. So, if I select the add brush, just
as the name implies, it's going to add
in here just like this. We can come up
here and we can change some of the
settings. So, right here, we can change
the length. We can change the points.
I'm going to change the length to about
0.15.
05.
Okay. And then I'm going to change the
points to 20 just to show you what
that's going to do. And if I add in
another h, you can see that the length
is definitely shorter. And if I go into
edit mode, so just press tab to go into
edit mode. You're going to notice here
that we have more vertices on this hair
shant. So you can push and pull this one
around a lot more than we had for this
one. So on this one, we just had it. So
if you go back into sculpt mode, and I'm
just going to show you the comb brush.
I'm going to come back to explain this.
If we come in with the comb brush and we
just try to push and pull this around,
you're going to notice that we have a
lot more control over the one where we
just have eight points. So that is for
the add brush. Also on the add brush, we
can change the count here to five. And
depending on the radius of the brush,
it's going to add in five new hair
strands depending on the radius of your
brush. But I generally like to leave
this one to one. So that's what the add
brush does. Now let's take a look at the
delete brush. Delete brush. Very
self-explanatory. It's just going to
delete the hair strands right there. So,
you can just delete this one. Just hover
hover over over any hair and then just
delete it. The density brush works just
like the add brush. The only difference
being that we are going to specify a
distance right here at which is going to
add in the hairs. So, if I just specify
the distance of 0.1,
okay, and I just start adding in here,
it's going to add in here. But each of
these hair is at a distance of 0.01. So
if I just come in here and I keep on
adding in here, it's going to add in
here at a distance of 0.01. We can also
come in here to the curve shape and we
can change some of those settings like
we had for the add brush. So that's the
way that the density brush works. Okay,
the selection brush. Let's take a look
at the selection brush. With the
selection brush, we can select parts of
the hair. So we can just come in here
and select just parts of the hair. And
then we can adjust this. So I can use
the comb brush. I'm going to explain the
comb brush in a bit. But we can just use
the comb brush. Just push and pull just
those parts that we selected. It's not
going to affect any of these other
parts. So we can either do that or with
the selection brush, you can come in
here and select the whole of the curve.
So instead of selecting part of the
curve, we can select the whole curve
just like this. Okay. So just hover over
a couple of them and then select the
whole curve and it's going to select
that. Okay. So now that we have selected
that, we can come down here to the
combros. And let me explain what the
comb brush does. You've already probably
seen what the comb brush does. So the
comb brush is just going to push and
pull the hair into shape just exactly
the way you want it to be. So we can
just push and pull this one into shape.
Something like this. Okay. So that's how
the comb brush works. If I just select
everything, we can push and pull the
hair strands into place. The grow shrink
brush right here is either going to grow
the hair or it's going to shrink down
the hair. If I hold down control, you
can shrink down the hair. If you don't
want to use the shortcut, you can come
up here to set it to subtract and then
you can just shrink this down. Or you
can set it to plus to bring this up. I
like to leave it on the default, which
is plus and then just hold on control
and then shrink down this hair. Okay,
the next brush that we're going to look
at is the pinch brush. So on the pinch
brush, let's just say, for example, I
come in here and I select this hair with
the pinch brush. I can just pinch those
ones in just like this. Okay? And you
can definitely start to see what we have
with the pinch brush. So this is going
to be really useful if you're grooming a
lot of hair that has clumping on it.
Okay. Let's go back to the puff brush.
I'm going to select all. And the puff
brush is just going to puff out the hair
just like this. So, you're just going to
make the hair stand up straight on the
hair scalp. The pull teeth brush is
going to pull the hair in the direction
that you specify. So, in the specified
direction, you're just going to be able
to pull the tip of the hair. The slide
brush, this one is going to be really
useful. You can slide the hair in
different directions just like this. And
then the smooth brush is going to smooth
out the hair. any hair strands that were
bent. Just going to smooth it out. Just
smooth out the curvature. Just like
that. So, these are all the brushes. You
can come in here and play around with
these brushes. Something that I like to
do is to add these brushes to my quick
favorite. Right. So, just right click on
these brushes and then add them to your
P. Right. We are going to be using the
selection brush a lot. So, for the
selection brush, I added a shortcut to
this one. You can right click on it and
then right here you're going to see add
shortcut. The shortcut that I added in
for mine is W. So, let's say I'm on the
comb brush and I'm just combing in these
areas. And I just want to select one of
these here. I can just press W and it's
going to switch to the selection brush.
And then now that I've selected this, I
can switch back to the comb brush. Then
I can just comb this one into place.
Something like that. Okay, I want to
show you two options that we have on
every brush. So, we have the sphere
option and the projected option. for the
sphere option. It just works like an
actual comb. So, if I just comb out
these areas,
something like this, you're going to
notice that it's selecting only the ones
in front and it's not really going to
touch the ones at the back. So, let me
just comb that. So, you can see just
moving the ones in front. Let me do it
right here. You're going to notice that
it's just combing the ones in front and
it's not really touching the ones at the
back. So, the sphere option just works
like a an actual comb. But the projected
option is going to comb everything. It's
just going to go through the whole hair.
It's going to comb everything into
place. So the projected option I like to
use when I'm just starting out to just
get the overall shape of the hair. And
then the sphere option, I like to use
the sphere option just to refine the
shape of the hair. I'm going to show you
how we going to use this when we
actually start grooming hair. Okay. So,
that's how you're going to go in and add
in the guide here. And then you're going
to need to add modifiers to be able to
actually make this hair look like hair.
You can come in here and change this to
your asset browser. Then, under the
essentials, just choose the hair
collection. You're going to see all
these modifiers that we can add onto the
hair. So, like I mentioned earlier,
we're going to add in parent hair, which
is this one, or guide hair. And then
we're going to add in children hair. If
you wanted to add in children hair to
this, the modifier that we're going to
use is the interpolate hair curves right
here. So, I'm just going to drag and
drop this one right here. You're going
to notice that everything disappears,
which is not exactly what we want. So,
I'm going to come down here to the
modifiers. These are modifiers. So, as I
drag and drop that there, it added it in
as a modifier. I'm going to show you
another way of using this. We can use
them as nodes. But for now, let me just
show you the modifier. So to set up the
interpolation, let's just select the
scalp. So I'm going to select the scalp
object right here. I can see that some
of the hair return. You just need to
increase the density value way up. So
I'm just going to take that to 50,000.
So these are the initial guide here that
we had. And now we have added in
children here. So the children here are
just following the guide here that we
placing. If I also just go back into
sculpt mode and I just move this, you're
going to see how that is working. Okay.
We can also still come in here and add
in some more modifiers. We can add in
the clump modifier and we can play
around with the way this looks and just
come in here and play around with the
way this looks. I would advise that you
come inside of Blender and actually just
play around with some of these modifiers
and see what they do and see how they
work. So you can either use this as
modifiers or if you want to have more
control over the way the hair looks, we
can use this as geometry nodes. So, I'm
just going to speed up my viewport right
here. I'm going to open the geometry
node editor
and we are going to add in a new
geometry node right here. So, just click
on the add modifiers and then just
select the geometry node at the bottom
here. I'm going to disable this
modifier. So, the inter plate and the
clump modifiers just so that we can
start from the guide here. So, we can
select this. I'm going to create a new
geometry node right here. I'm just going
to name this here. You can name it
whatever you want it to be. So the
interlate hair course we can drag and
drop it right here and just place it
right here. Okay. So you can see that
everything disappear just like the way
it happened before. So we just need to
select the surface. So I can select
surface as the scalp and then inside of
geometry we need to do one more setup.
So just drag out the surface UV map.
Then search for a named attribute. Okay,
this one right here. And then we are
going to look for the UV map. So just
come in here. You can copy the name of
the UV map from the data properties here
and then just paste it right here.
You're going to notice some of the hair.
If I increase the density, it's about
50,000. Okay, you're going to notice
that we had we have the exact same thing
that we had when we had the modifiers
right here with the Let me just come in
here and I can add in the clump. So,
this one right here. And I can just drop
that right there. And you're going to
notice how that is working. We can come
in here and play with the guide distance
just to have something that we like. So
the advantage of using these nodes in
the geometry node editor is that we have
much more control over what we can do in
the geometry node editor. So we can come
in here, if you really know how to use
geometry nodes, you can come in here and
add in more nodes to have more control
over the shapes. You're going to see how
we going to use this when we start
grooming the hair inside of Blender for
our character. So just come here and
play around with these notes both as
modifiers and also as geometric notes
just to see how it works. Okay. Now I'm
going to show you the workflow. My
workflow that I like to use for grooming
hair. This is my workflow that I use
that works for almost all hair types.
There might be some cases where you need
to deviate from this but this is the
general guideline. So here's the hair
growing work. First off you create the
guide hair. So you create parent hair
just like this. And then we go ahead and
we interpolate the guide here. And then
we add in hair clumps. And then we add
in noise and hair freeze just to break
up the perfection on the hair. So let's
take a look at that again. First off, we
create the guide hair.
Then we interpate the guide hair. So
we're going to use modifiers in this
case to interplate the guide hair. And
then we're going to add in clumping to
define the shapes on the hair. We also
still going to use modifiers to do this.
And then we're going to add in some
noise and some hair freeze on the hair
so that we can break up the perfection
on the hair. And you're going to see how
we're going to do this inside of
Blender. So this is the four step
workflow that I like to use to create
any hairstyle. Okay. So now that you
know all of this, that's everything that
you need to know. That concludes the
fundamentals. You can now dive right
into Blender and we can start working on
the hair groom for this character. So
from the end of the last chapter, it
should be somewhere around here, which
is completely fine. Now we are going to
switch to the layout workspace. So
before we're working in the sculpting
workspace, but since we're no longer
sculpting, we can go to the layout
workspace right here. And I'm just going
to set up the layout workspace. I'm
going to bring up the end panel. And
under view, I'm going to change this to
150. And I'm going to change the view
port lighting to math cap. And I'm also
just going to uncheck outline right
here. I just like the way it looks
without the outline. Okay, now we have
something that looks like this. I'm also
just going to close up and arrange some
of the collections. And also we can come
in here to the restriction toggles. We
can turn on the disable in view port and
then we can just disable the high poly
collection in view port instead of
hiding it. So when we disable the
collection in the view port, Blender is
not going to think about it anymore. But
if we hide it, Blender is still thinking
about it. So just think of it something
like that. So let's just disable it in
the viewport since we don't need to see
it. If you ever need to see it, we can
still enable it. Okay. Now we have
something that looks like this for the
hairstyle today. So we are going to
groom this hairstyle, but this is going
to be the last thing that we're going to
do. First off, we're going to go through
easier examples. I'm going to show you
how to groom in the eyebrows and the
eyelashes. And then we're going to groom
in a short hair like this. And then I'll
now show you how to groom a hair like
this. Okay. So, let's get started with
the eyebrows. This reference I'm going
to leave a link that you can download
this reference. We're going to be using
this as a guide for the eyebrows. I'm
just going to place this somewhere
around here. So, like I mentioned
earlier, we need a scalp object for the
eyebrows. So, let's just go ahead and
let's create that scalp. So, I'm going
to select this one. I'm going to go into
edit mode and I can just select the area
around where the eyebrows is actually
going to be. So, something like this.
I'm just going to select the area where
the eyebrow is actually going to be. We
can disable or we can enable the view
port collection. We can enable the high
poly collection just so that we can see
where the eyebrows would actually be.
So, something like this is going to be
fine. Okay. I'm going to disable that
high poly collection. And then I'm going
to duplicate this and I'm going to press
P and I'm going to separate this one
into its own collection. Let me just
turn on screencast keys here so I can
see the keys I'm pressing. So I'll go
back into object mode and I'm going to
select that object that we just
duplicated. Let's rename this to brow.
I'm going to just turn off caps lock and
I'll name this brow
scalp. Okay, now we have something that
looks like that. Under the modifiers,
I'm going to get rid of the subdivision
surface modifier. I'm going to add in a
shrink wrap modifier. So, you can just
add that from right here. I'm going to
select the target as the body cuz I want
to make sure that that's lying right on
the surface right there. So, I'll just
make sure to add in the shrink gra. And
then we can mirror this over to the
other side. So, I'm just going to add a
mirror modifier. And I can just delete
these faces here. These ones are two
extra faces that we don't need. So I'm
just going to delete those faces right
there. Okay, let's apply all these
modifiers. We can press Ctrl E and then
visual geometry to mesh right here. So
this is the scalp object. Let's create a
new collection in our loop poly
collection where all the scalp objects
are going to sit. So I'm just going to
select this loop poly collection. I'm
going to press C and then it's going to
create this new collection. I'm just
going to rename this to scalp objects.
So you can just name this hair scalp.
Just like that. Now we can select that
brow scalp and we're going to put it
inside that collection this way. So
something like this. We can select this
brow scalp. Remember that we need to
have UVs for this brow scalp. So I'm
just going to split up my viewport right
here. I'm going to split I'm going to
change this to the UV editor and I'm
just going to go into edit mode on the
browse cup. So select that. go into edit
mode and let's make sure that we unwrap
this. So I'm going to select all. I can
get rid of this U checker grid. I don't
see that one. And then I can press U.
And then you can choose any of these
options. It doesn't really matter in
this case. I'm going to choose the
unwrap angle base. At this point, make
sure you don't have any of your vertices
still pinned. So remember that we
duplicated this object from the body
object. And when we're doing the UV
unwrapping, we might have pinned some of
the objects. So just make sure you don't
have any objects. you don't have any
versus pinned right here. You can select
all and press alt P to remove any pins.
And then I'm just going to scale this
one down and place it right here. The
orientation of the UVs don't really
matter in this case. I'm going to close
this down. Okay, just make sure I close
that properly. I'll bring this back up
here. And I can actually close the
timeline. I don't need to see the
timeline right now. Okay, now we have
this scalp object. And our scalp object
has UVs. Now we can go ahead and we can
add in the curve. So shift a curve and
we can add in an empty curve. We're
going to be starting from scratch on
this one. We're going to notice that
that curve is parented to the browse
cap. I can rename this to something like
eyebrows. Okay. Now we have something
that looks like this. Now what I want to
do before I start grooming, I'm going to
enable the high poly collection. I'm
just going to make use of the annotation
tool. I'll make sure that the placement
here is set to surface. And then I'm
just going to mark out where the eyebrow
is going to be or where I intend for the
eyebrow to be. Okay. Something like
this. The eyebrows on my character are
really thin. So, I'm just going to mark
this out. Something like this. Just so I
have an idea of where the eyebrows are
going to be. Okay. I'm going to disable
that collection. Now, I can select the
scalp object. I'm just going to switch
back to my selection brush. So my
selection tool there and then we can go
into sculpt mode. In sculpt mode, we are
going to be adding guides just like this
on the hair. Let me increase the brushes
here so that you can see the brushes and
then I'm also going to turn on the name
so that you can just see the brushes I'm
using at all point in time. So we can
get started by adding in new guide here.
So we're going to be adding in parent
hair just like this. So we can make use
of the add brush. I'm going to turn on X
symmetry and let's just add in the first
H strand this way. You can see that this
is definitely way too long for the
eyebrows. So, we need to come up here
and then we can reduce the length. So,
I'm going to take this to 01.
Okay, this is still too long for me. I'm
going to take this down to 0.7.
And let me see what that looks like.
Okay, something like that definitely
looks good. Now I'm just going to follow
exactly what I see on the reference and
I'll make that for my own character. So
now that I've added in this section, we
can come in here to the comb brush and
then we can comb this in. I'm going to
be using the quick right a little bit.
You also notice on the Q right we have
this little underlined letters for each
of these tools that we have added to the
quick right. So those are just
shortcuts. So if I press Q and I press
A, that's going to switch me to the add
brush. If I press Q and I press D,
that's going to switch me to the delete
brush. So you can just learn this
shortcut is going to be really useful
since we're going to be adding and we
going to be using these shortcuts. We're
going to be using these tools a lot.
It's going to be really nice for you to
get yourself familiar with these
shortcuts right here. So now that I've
added in that hair, we can come in with
the comb brush and then we can just comb
this one into place. I'm going to follow
what I have on the reference. Something
like this. I can just comb this one
here. From the top, I'll make sure that
that's not intersecting through the
face. And at this point, I'm just going
to change my brush type to projected.
Okay. Just so I can comb this a little
bit easier rather than using the sphere
option. So, I'm going to push this one
up here. Something like this. Okay.
Nice. I can go to the art brush. Switch
to the art brush. Then I can add in
another echo right here. And then I'm
going to comb this one into place.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like this. I can come in here can add in
another hair strand right here and comb
this one into place. Something like
this.
Okay, so I'm just taking a look at the
reference and determining which hair
guys I need to add in next. Okay,
something like that. So just make sure
that you have the reference on your side
when you're adding this here. I'm going
to switch to the selection brush right
here. So my shortcut is W for the
selection brush. And I'm going to change
this to the curve selection just so I
can select the whole curve instead of
selecting parts of the curve. And then
I'm just going to cve this just like
this.
Something like this. And before I add in
a new hand, you're going to notice that
I deselect everything. The way I
deselect everything is with Alt A. And
I'll just make sure that my screencast
keys is actually turned on so that I can
see the keys I'm pressing right here.
Okay. So, Alt A is going to deselect
everything. And A is going to select
everything. That's another useful
shortcut that you need to know. Okay.
So, we have something that looks like
this. I'm going to come in here and I'm
going to add another Hand right here.
I'm just going to comb this one into
place following the reference from the
top or from the front view and also from
the top view.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like this. I can add in I can add in
another hair strand right here. And I
can start to comb this one into place.
Just something like this.
I can. Okay, now that I deselect
everything, I can see that that's going
through the mesh. So, I'm just going to
use the selection brush to select just
that one. Then I'll switch to the comb
brush. Then I'm just going to push this
one out.
Something like this. And I'm also going
to push this one in like this. Okay, I
can select all of these and then just
adjust them a little bit more. And I can
just toggle overlay. So I can press Z
and toggle overlays from up here or you
can just come up here and toggle
overlays. But I prefer to use the
shortcut right here just so that I can
see how things are looking. Okay, that
is looking really nice. I'm just going
to bring up these ones a little bit.
Okay, I'm going to use the add brush and
I'm going to add in a hair strand right
here. And I'm going to comb this one
into place.
So, from the top and also from the side
right here, I'm going to add in another
one at the top. I'm just going to comb
this one into place.
So, this is going to get a little bit
repetitive, but I'm not going to speed
up this one just so I can see actually
see how long it takes. It is not going
to take you like any less time. Probably
take you longer time if this is your
first time of doing this. Just make sure
to take your time with this.
I'm going to select this one here and
I'm going to use the slide brush and I'm
just going to actually slide this one
right here. Okay. And then I can comb
this one into place. Something like
this. I can add in a couple of hair
right here. So, I'm just going to add in
one, two, three, four, five. Then I'm
going to use the comb brush to just comb
these ones into place. something like
this. And then also from the top, I'll
just make sure that's not going through
the hair.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like this.
Okay, still following what what I have
on the reference. Okay, and this looks
good. I'm going to add in some more hair
guides at the top here. So, I'm just
going to add in some more right here.
I'm going to use the comb brush and just
comb these ones into place.
I'll make sure that this is not
intersecting or going through the head.
Okay. And then I'm going to make use of
the comb brush to just comb this one out
like this.
All right. Something like that is
definitely looking good. We're going to
come in here. We're going to add in more
guide hair just until I feel everything
right here. So, I'll come in here. I'll
add in some guide here. And I can just
start grooming these ones into place.
And then I'm going to come from the top
here. I'm just going to adjust this.
Make this follow the shape of the hair.
Just like this.
Okay. And then I can add in I can select
the zones
right here. I just make sure I select
those ones. Then I'm going to use the
comb brush to just comb this one into
place like this. I'm going to select
this one. And then I'm going to slide
this one just a little bit. I can also
select this one. and then slide this
one.
I'll select these and then just slide
them around. Just push them a little bit
just so that we have even spacing a
little bit. Can also come in here and
add in one hair right here. Going to add
in one hair. Then I'm just going to comb
this one into place like this.
I'm going to select all of these and
then I'll just comb them a little bit.
Make sure nothing is intersecting
through the hair.
Okay. Something just like this. And I'm
also going to add in some guides at the
bottom here. So I'm going to switch to
the add brush. Then I'm just going to
add these ones right here. Then we can
comb this into place just like the way
you see it on the reference. So
something like this. I can use the slide
brush to move these ones around a bit.
Okay. And I'm going to switch back to
the comb brush to just comb these ones
into place.
Something like this. And once we start
to get to the end of the eyebrow, the
hairs are going to start to get shorter.
So, we can use the G shrink brush and
then we can hold down control and shrink
this down. You're going to notice that
it's not shrinking down right now. Just
need to come up here to scaling. And
then on that minimum length, let's turn
this down to zero. Okay. And then hold
on control. And then just shrink this
ones down.
I'm going to switch back to the comb
brush. And then I'm just going to comb
this.
I'll make sure that that's not going
through the head.
And I'll place this right there. I
select everything
and place it right here.
Okay. I also select these ones right
here and just make sure that they
intersecting
through the mesh. I can go into edit
mode and also just select this. So I'm
just hovering over this and pressing L
to select them. And then I'll make use
of the comb brush to just push this one
out.
And I just make sure that it's on the
head and not passing through. Okay, now
we have something that looks like that.
And I'm just going to come in here. I'm
going to add in some final hair strands.
Come here and add in a couple of hair
strands just like this. Then I can use
the comb brush. Just move these ones
into place. I'm also just going to make
use of the ging brush. I'll shrink some
of this down just like this. I can also
shrink this one down. I'll hold down
control to shrink this one down. And
then I'll make use of the comb brush to
comb this into place.
And then I can slide some of these
around. So I'm going to bring this one
here. Bring this one here. I'll just
make sure that it's not intersecting
through the scalp object.
Okay. And now we have something that
looks like this on both sides. Okay. So,
this is looking good. Can still come
back and adjust this if we needed to.
But for now, this is looking good. So,
if you wanted to make any adjustments at
this stage, I highly suggest switching
to the sphere option just so that you
don't mess up any grooms that you had
before.
Okay. So, I can just adjust this a
little bit more. But I'm going to call
this done for now. Okay. Now, we have
this hair, guys. I can also just get rid
of this. Actually, I'll leave the
annotation line for now cuz we're going
to use it later on. Now, what we want to
go ahead and do is to add in children
here. Now that I've added in the guide
here, we're going to need to add in
children here. So, let me just minimize
this. I'm going to split up my view port
right here. And I'm going to switch this
to the asset browser. Under all
libraries, I'm just going to choose the
hair asset library. Okay. And let's give
that a second to load. Now, we're going
to be using modifiers to add in or to
interplay the hair. And if I just
actually bring this up here, I'm just
going to show you the workflow, the hair
grooming workflow just so that we don't
forget it. So, we're going to create
guide here. That's what we have just
done. Now, we want to interpolate the
guide here. So, we are going to make use
of modifiers for the eyebrows and the
eyelashes. We're going to make use of
modifiers for now. So, we're going to
use these different assets as modifiers.
When we get on to grooming the short
hair, I'm going to show you how to use
this as nodes in geometry nodes. But for
now, let's just go really simple. I'm
going to drag and drop the interpolate
hair curve right there. You're going to
notice that everything disappears, which
is not exactly what we want. I'm going
to select the surface which is the scalp
and then we can increase the density. So
I'm going to take this up to about
50,000. We're going to see what's
happening right here. Okay. So now
you're going to notice that the
interplace hair curve is scattering hair
everywhere across the scalp object. So
if I just move this, you're going to
notice what's happening. Is scattering
hair everywhere across the scalp object.
Let me just increase the density so that
we can see that a little bit more. I'll
take this up to a 100,000. Then just
take this up a little bit more. About
800,000. Okay. Now we have something
that looks like this. Now we need to
tell Blender that we just want the
eyebrows just to be somewhere around
here. So to be able to do that, if you
take a look at the interpolate course,
we have this max texture. So, we going
to use a texture to tell Blender that we
just want hair just here. We don't want
it everywhere on the hair scalp. So, to
be able to do that, we're going to paint
in a texture. So, let's select the brow
scalp. I'm going to go up here and I'm
going to switch it to the texture paint
workspace and we're going to create a
new texture. We can come up here and
we're going to be for the mode. We're
going to set this to single image. Since
we're just creating a single image, this
is not going to be used in any material.
So, I'm just going to change this to
single image. And then I'm going to
create a new one. Then I'm just going to
name this. You can name this brow
density. Okay. And then the resolution,
we can go for a 2K resolution here. I'm
just going to copy this and paste this
one right here. For the color, we can
leave it as black. And then we're just
going to create a new image right there.
This image very important. We want to
make sure that we save this image. So,
I'm just going to split up my view ports
right here. I'm going to change this to
the image editor. I'm just going to open
up that that we just loaded in. And
let's save this image. Can come here to
save image and then save right here. And
then just create a new folder called
textures.
Okay, it's going to be useful also when
we start texturing. So, just create a
new folder called textures. And then
let's save that brow density image into
that folder. Okay. Now we are going to
everything is black. So if I just
isolate this, we can see that everything
is black. We're going to use a white
color to tell Blender where we want the
hair to be. And by default, we're going
to have a black color and a white color
in the texture paint. We can switch this
with X. So I can just press X to switch
this. Okay, now we have the white color.
So we're going to to use the white
color. I'm just going to paint in here.
Before I start painting, I'm going to
use the paint soft brush. I like the way
that brush works a lot better. Then I'm
just going to paint this in here. Just
like this.
Okay. I can also switch back to the
black brush if I need to refine this a
little bit more. So I'm just going to
switch right here to this brush. I can
refine the shape if I need to. We can
always still come back and refine this.
And also when you make any changes to
the texture right here, also make sure
that you come in and you save the image.
The shortcut is alt s. Just make sure
that you save the image because blender
will not automatically save the image
for you. If you don't save this image,
you can lose the image even just while
working inside of Blender. So make sure
to save the image at this point. Okay.
So now I'm going to go back into object
mode. I'm going to slash to bring back
everything. I'm going to select the
eyebrow curves and then under the
interpolate hair course, let me just
bring this one down. Also bring this up.
We are going to choose the max texture.
And you're going to notice what happened
right here. So the max texture is just
telling the hair that we just want hair
in those places that we painted in as
white. Okay. So I'm just going to select
this. I'm just going to increase this a
little bit more.
Okay. Now we have something that looks
like this. I'll probably take this up
even more. Okay. Now we have something
that looks like this. We can go in and
we can refine that mask a little bit
more. I'll go back into the texture
paint workspace. I'm just going to
refine the mask. I'll make it just a
little bit small. Something like this.
Okay. And I can just isolate the scalp
object for now. And you can press
control and spacear to just maximize the
view port right here. And I'm just going
to draw this one out so that we have
something more like this. I can switch
back to the black brush and I can just
clean out some of these areas.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like this. Okay, this is going to be
fine for now. We're definitely going to
adjust these eyebrows a little bit more.
Okay, now on these eyebrows, you're
going to notice that something is off
about this eyebrows. On these eyebrows,
we have the same thickness from the root
to the tip. And if you check hans,
that's not the way hesshrance actually
work. So for us to be able to change the
shape of this, we're going to come here
to the render properties. And Blender
has a way or different way of dealing
with curves. So on the strand setting
here, if we set the shape of the curves
to strand, the root and the tip is going
to have the same thickness. But if you
set it here to strip, we going to be
able to modify the thickness of the
curve. And the way we modify the
thickness of the curve is right here. So
if you just come down here, we can drag
and drop the set hair cuffs profile.
Drag and drop that right here. And if
you come in here, we can adjust the
shape of the hair. The average human
hair is about 0.1 mm. So I'm just going
to type that here.1
mm.
And then it's going to give you what
actual hair should look like. So this is
what actual hair is going to look like.
And something I'm going to do in this
case, I'm just going to select this
curve just so that we can see it a
little bit better. I'm going to come
here to the object properties under
viewport display. I'm going to change
the color to black. And then I'm also
just going to change my view port
shading here to object just so that I
can see this a little bit more. Okay,
now we have something that looks like
this. I can go into sculpt mode a bit
and then start to just adjust this hair
strand now that we can see the children
here just so that we can see how this is
going to flow. So something like this. I
might need to paint adjust the textures
this texture a little bit more. So I'm
just going to switch to my brow scalp
here. I'm going to go into texture
painting and then I'm just going to
paint this one out. I'll add in some
more white to these areas right here.
Okay. So, I have something that looks
more like this. All right. I'm happy
with the way this looks. I can go back
into sculpt mode on the curve and I can
just keep on adjusting the way this
actually looks. So, we have something
that looks like this. I can just adjust
these areas into a shape that you like.
Okay. I'm definitely going to adjust
this a lot more, but not to make this
chapter too long. I'm going to leave it
at this for now. I like the way it's
looking for now, but I'm going to still
adjust this a little bit more once I
have the time to do that. Okay, on this
hair curve, we can also still come in
here and play around with the set hair
curves profile. So, you can just play
around with shape and see what you like.
For the shape, I'm going to take this
one up just a little bit. Somewhere
around 6 is actually looking just fine
for the hair. And then I'm going to
increase the interpolation amount just
so I can have more hair curves right
here. I'm going to increase that a lot
more. Okay, something more like that is
what I'm looking for. Okay, this is
looking good. Probably I'll reduce that
a little bit more. Let's take this down
to three.
Okay, something like this is looking
good. Now we have been able to interpate
the guide here. Next thing that we're
going to do is to clump the hair guides.
So, I'm going to select the curve here,
and I'm going to drag and drop this hair
clump modifier right here. And if I just
toggle overlays, you're going to already
notice what that is doing. So, you're
just clumping the hair together. Okay,
we can change the guide distance, which
is to clump those hairs together. Right
now, you're going to notice that if you
change the guide distance, it's not
changing. But if we come down here and
uncheck the existing guide map. So if
this is check, Blender is going to
create a guide map for you. Since we
want to be able to change the values
here, I'm going to uncheck the existing
guide map. I'm just going to take this
value to a low threshold. Something like
this.
Okay. And you can definitely see what's
happening on the eyebrows. So everything
is starting to clump nicely together.
Okay. From the top, I'm just going to go
into sculpt mode a little bit. I'm just
going to push this one into place.
All right. Now we have something that
looks like this. And this is looking
really nice for the eyebrows on the
clumping. So for the clumping, I like to
do both a primary clump and a secondary
clump. So I'm going to just tone down
the factor here. So this is going to be
our primary clump. I'm going to drag and
drop the clump once again and I'm going
to uncheck the existing guide map. I'm
going to use a lower value than what we
had here. So for the primary clumps we
had 04.
So on the secondary clumps I can use 02.
Okay. And now you're going to notice
that we have clumps inside of the
primary clumps right here. Okay. So
that's just a nice way to break up the
hair just by adding in clumps. So we
have those clumps right here. Okay. Now
we have something that looks like this.
The next step is going to be to add in
some noise or some hair freeze. So I'm
just going to scroll up here. We're
going to add in some light noise to the
hair. We can either use the freeze hair
curves or the hair curves noise. For the
eyebrows, I'm going to stick to using
the freeze hair curves. So, I'm just
going to drag and drop this right here.
We're going to notice everything goes
crazy. Just uncheck cumulative offset.
And then we're going to come in here and
we're going to play with some of the
settings. So, the two settings I like to
play with is either the distance here.
So, you can just reduce the distance.
Okay. Something like that. And you're
going to notice what the freeze curve
what the freeze modifier is doing. It's
just adding a little bit of randomness
to all the hair. So, I'm just going to
tone that down just by reducing the
factor right here. So we have something
that looks like this. Okay. So this is
looking good for the hair curves on the
eyebrow. So that's how you're going to
create eyebrows for any character that
you're going to be creating. So you can
just come in here and play around with
these settings on the modifiers. I'm
going to definitely come in here and do
that a lot more. But for now, we can
keep on moving forward. The next thing
that I want to show you how to do is how
to create eyelashes for your character.
So for the eyelashes, we're going to do
it the same way that we did for the
eyebrows. So first off, we're going to
duplicate the scalp object. So I can
select right here. So I'm just going to
go into selection mode. I'm just going
to select this ring that goes around the
eye. Something like that. Okay. I'm
going to duplicate this one. And P, I'm
going to separate this one into its own
object. And then I'm just going to
select it from right here. I can rename
this to lashes
scalp. Okay, now we have something that
looks like that. I'm going to move that
into the scalp collection. I'm going to
get rid of the subdivision surface
modifier on that one. I'm going to add
in the shrink wrap modifier. I'll select
the target as the body object. Then
right here, I can just come in and shape
this one up a little bit nicely just so
that it fits the shape of the eyes. I'm
going to do the same right here. So, I
just turned on snapping. And I'm just
snapping some of these into place. And
then I can also make this one a little
bit narrow. So I'm going to slide this
in. So GG to just slide that in. So the
eyelashes are going to be emitted out
from right here. If I take a look at my
own reference. So let me just zoom out
here. If I take a look at the eyelashes
here, we don't really have any eyelashes
at the front here. So what I'm going to
do right here, I'm just going to move
this over to the other side. I'm going
to delete some of these pieces right
here. Okay, we might not need eyelashes
there. So, we don't need them to emit
out from there. And I'm also just going
to select this one. I just move that
down just a little bit more. Okay, so
now we have something that looks like
this. I'm going to mirror this over to
the other side. And let's apply all our
modifiers here. Ctrl A. Then we can
select visual geometry to mesh. Just
like this. I can now get rid of these
annotation lines that we had right here.
Okay, so to go ahead and get started
with the eyebrows, remember that we need
UVs for the scalp. And I'll just make
sure to save this image here. So image,
I'm just going to save this so that we
don't lose that. I'm going to change
this to the UV editor. I'll go into edit
mode on this one. I'll select
everything. I can get rid of the UV
grid. I don't need to see that. And I'm
just going to select all. And then I'm
going to unwrap. Then we have something
that looks like this. I'll just make
sure I have these right here. Make sure
that I don't have any duplicates on top
themselves. So I have something going on
right here.
I can just delete those. And let me see.
Okay, I'm going to reccrease reconstruct
this face. I think I had an issue going
on right there. I also do the same on
the other side. I'm going to select this
one and create new F there. And then I'm
going to unwrap this. Okay, now we have
something that looks like this. And the
unwrap the way the orientation doesn't
really matter in this case. I'm just
going to scale everything down and place
it right here. We just need to make sure
that we have UVs for this. Okay, so this
is going to be fine for the lashes
scalp. Now, let's go ahead and let's add
in a cove. I'm going to come up here to
add cove and we can add in an empty
hair. You're going to notice that that
is related to the lashes scalp right
here. I'm just going to rename this to
eyelashes.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like that. I'm going to go into the
sculpt mode and we are going to start
adding in the guide hair for the
eyelashes. So, let me just go back to
our reference right here. We're going to
start adding in guide hair just like we
have right here. I'm going to use the
add brush and we can just add in a new
hair right there. And for this lash, I'm
just going to increase the shape or
increase the length. So I can just take
this to 01 should be fine here. I'm
going to select this one. Okay. And now
you're going to notice that the radius
of this is way too big. So when we are
grooming, we don't want to deal with
this for now. So I'm just going to go
back to the render properties and I'm
going to change this one to strand for
now. Okay. And then I'm just going to
come in here. I'm just going to place in
here. Coming here and placing evenly
spaced out hair for the eyelashes.
Just go around the eyelash scalp. And
I'm going to place in the hair.
And just so that I can see where I'm
actually placing the hair, I can select
this scalp. Just so I can see where I'm
placing the hair a little bit more. So
I'm just going to place in the hair
right here. We don't want to have too
many of these hair strands. So I'm just
going to come here and place this. Okay.
Something like this is going to be fine
for now. I'm going to make use of the
comb brush. And I'm just going to from
the top somewhere around like a view
like this. Can just use the comb brush.
And you can comb this one out. Also,
just comb this one out like this. Okay.
So, we want to comb this one out and up.
Okay. I'm also just going to move these
ones up.
Something like this. I'll push this ones
up. I also just push this ones this way.
All right. And now we have something
that looks like this for the scalp.
You're going to notice right here that
the guys that we have at this corner are
much shorter than these ones that we
have here. So, I'm going to make use of
the growing brush. I'm going to hold on
control. I'm just going to shrink down
these areas right here.
Okay. Just hold on hold down control and
shrink down these areas. And I'm also
just shrinking down these areas. I'll
grow this part out a little bit.
All right. So now we have something that
looks like this. You're going to notice
I didn't turn on X symmetry. So to be
able to mirror this over to the other
side, remember we can go into edit mode.
So I'm going to select all of these.
I'll just go back into object mode. Make
sure only this selected. I'll go back
into edit mode on the curve. I can
select all of these. Shift D to
duplicate this. Shift D to duplicate
this. We want our 3D cursor to be at the
world origin so that we can mirror this
over to the other side. So, shift S and
then cursor toward origin. Then we're
going to use the cursor as our pivot
point. And then we can press CtrlM and X
to mirror this over to the other side.
Let's make sure we have x symmetry
turned on so that whatever we do on this
side is going to affect it's going to be
changed on the other side. So you can
still come in here with the comb brush
can just comb this ones into place.
Okay. And we can have something that
looks like this.
Yeah. And I'm just going to comb this
into place. I can change this to
projected just to be able to change out
the shape of this a little bit easily.
And I'm just using the comb brush to
just comb this out.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like this for the upper eyelashes. Let's
also just go ahead and groom out or
adding guide hairs for the lower
eyelashes. I'll go back into sculpt
mode. Still on this same C object. I'm
going to use the add brush and I'm just
going to come in here. I'll select the
scalp just so I can see where I'm
placing those hair. And I'm going to
come in from right here. I'm going to
start placing this guide here like this
at the bottom. We don't need too many
guide here. This is probably too many.
So I'm just going to switch to the
delete brush. Going to just delete some
of these.
And then I can slide some of these ones
around
just to make sure that they're evenly
spaced too. I'll slide some of these
ones around this way.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like this. I'm going to use the comb
brush to just comb these ones out
like this. I'm going to comb all of
these out.
And then we can make use of comb brush
from the side view. I can just start to
push this one up.
Something like this from the side here.
You can also just curve this one out.
You just make sure to take your time
with this when you're grooming in the
hair strands. I'm just going to comb
these ones into shape. right here. I'm
going to smooth out this one. You can
actually just hold down shift and then
it's going to smooth out everything just
like the way it works in the sculpt
mode. I'm going to push some of these
ones down this way. I'm going to push
some of these ones this way.
Okay. I'm going to use the grow shrink
brush. I'm going to shrink down some of
these.
All right. And I just make use of the
comb brush to just push these ones into
place.
All right. Now we have something that
looks like this both for the upper
eyelashes and for the lower eyelashes.
So right now we have been able to create
the guide here. We have been able to
create guide here. So what we want to go
ahead and do is to interpolate the guide
here. So to interpolate guide here, I'm
just going to close this sidebar. You
don't need to see that one. I can select
this and then I can drag and drop in the
interpolate hair course. And then let's
set this up. I'm going to choose the
scalp, the lashes scalp. And then we can
increase the density right here. So, I'm
just going to take this up to a really
high value. Something like this
until I start seeing a lot of hair
strands.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like this. With this, I can just go back
into sculpt mode. I can make use of the
grow shrink brush just to make this look
a little bit more nicer. So, I can
shrink down this part.
Okay. I'm going to grow this part just
to make everything look really even and
nice. Something like this.
Can also just use the comb brush to just
comb this ones out. Now that we have we
can see what the hair is going to look
like. It's going to be really useful to
do that. So, I'm going to also just grow
these areas right here.
Okay. Now, we have something that looks
like this. I can shrink down these areas
right here.
And I'll use the comb brush. Then just
comb this one into place. Going to make
use of the ging brush. And then just
comb that into place. Something that
looks like this.
All right, this is definitely looking
good for the eyelashes. I'm going to
copy the color that I have on the
eyebrows. Ctrl C to copy this. And I'm
going to paste it right here for the
eyelashes. We have way too many children
here on the lower eyelashes. So, we're
going to be adjusting that. For now,
I'll leave it the way it is. I'm going
to switch the go to the render options.
I'm just going to change the curve type
or the curve shape to strip. And now
we're going to make use of the set
profile. I drag and drop that one right
there. And then I can just type in.1
mm. Now we have something that looks
like that. You might need to make this
thicker or less thicker depending on
your own character. For me, I think I'm
going to make it a little bit thicker.
So, I'll just take this to 2 mm and see
what that looks like. Okay. Something
like that is definitely looking good.
I'm just going to come in here. I'm
going to adjust the shapes of this just
so that I just want it to look really
nice.
All right. Now, we have something that
looks like this. I'm going to push this
ones up. You can actually just grow all
of these ones. Just screw them out a
little bit more. So, this is going to
depend on what you want your character
to look like. For me, something like
this works just fine. All right. I like
how this is looking. So, you have been
able to interpolate the guide hair. Now,
let's clump the hair. I'm going to move
the set course profile above the
interplate hair course. That's just how
I like it. There's really nothing
anywhere you place the set hair profile.
This one doesn't really matter. I'm
going to drag and drop in the clone pair
calls on this one. Okay, now we have
something that looks like this. We can
play around with the guide map. So, I'm
just going to uncheck existing guide
map. And with the existing guide map,
you're going to notice right here that
is just using the hair that we have as
the existing guide map. We might not
necessarily want that. In some cases, we
want that, but in this case, I don't
really want that. I'm just going to go
back into object mode. I'm going to
uncheck the guide distance. And then I'm
just going to bring this to a low value.
Something around here.
All right. And we have something that
looks like this. And we can come here,
play around with the tip spread. Just
going to go a really low value just so
that it breaks up the clumping a little
bit more. Now we have something that
looks like this for the lashes. And then
we can add in noise. So that's the last
step. You can come in here and we can
add in noise and freeze to this. So I'm
just going to drag and drop in the hair
curves noise. Okay, I'm going to uncheck
cumulative offset. And I'm going to
increase the size or the scale of the
noise and also the scale along CE. I'm
just going to increase this one. I'll
take this to 15. Let me see how that
looks. Okay. All right. Here I'm just
going to reduce the factor
just something like that. And I can also
increase the scale a little bit more.
All right. So we can see what that is
doing on the hair strands. Okay.
Something like that. I'm going to reduce
the factor a little bit more. All right.
Something like that is definitely
looking good for the hair strands. I
like what that's looking like. Okay. All
right. here for the lower eyelashes. We
don't want these much hairs for the
lower eyelashes. So, what I'm going to
do, I'm going to go into edit mode. I'm
going to select these ones for the lower
eyelashes. Ctrl L to make sure I select
everything. I'm also just going to
select this part on the other side. I
make sure I select everything and P.
We're going to separate this one into
its own collection or into its own
object. So, we just separated that into
its own object right there. And then
what we can do on the scalp on the scalp
object, I'm going to just press slash to
isolate this one. And I'm going to
separate the top from the bottom. So
right here, we can select this edge
right here. And I can just press V to
separate this one. So I'm just going to
separate that edge right there. I also
do the same on the other side. So this
one, I can just separate that edge right
there. And if I bring this back, okay,
you're going to see that I've now been
able to separate the lower eyelashes
from the bottom or the lower eyelashes
from the upper eyelashes. So, let's
adjust some of the settings right here
under the clone hair curves. I'm going
to actually use the guide distance. So,
I'm going to use the existing guide map,
which is the hairs that we added in
earlier. So, for this existing guide
map, I can come into scores mode. can
actually just add in a hair right here.
I'm going to add in a guide right here.
Okay, I'm going to select this one and
make sure I can select the whole curve.
And then I can come in here. I can comb
this one down.
Something like this. And just push this
one into shape. I can use the growing
brush to shrink this one down. And I can
just start to clump some of these ones
together. Something like that. We
definitely don't want this many hair
strands. So, I'm going to go to the
interpolate hair course. And I'm going
to reduce this. Let's say it's about one
is maybe too a little bit too sparse.
I'm going to increase this a little bit
more. And let's see. Okay. I'll leave
this at
25.
Okay. Something like this for the lower
eyelashes is going to look good. Can
come in here and just keep on adjusting
this. So, I'm just going to clump some
of these together. I'm just going to
comb some of these together for the
lower eyelashes so that we have
something that looks like this. Okay. I
can select these two right here.
Just these two. And then I'm going to
comb them together. Or we can use the
pinch brush. Then we can just pinch this
ones together. Instead of using the
pinch brush, I'm just going to use the
comb brush and select these two.
And then I'm going to use the comb
brush. And then push these ones
together.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like this. You can definitely come in
here and play around with the shape of
the eyelashes a little bit more. For
this one right here, I'm going to grow
this one out a little bit more. And I'm
just going to use the comb brush to just
push this one down just so I can have a
bit more shape to this one.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like that for the eyelashes. So this is
how I would approach creating the
eyelashes and the eyebrows. So we are
doing it very simple. We are making use
of the modifiers. Once I show you how to
make use of the geometry node, you can
actually use the geometry node editor to
be able to control this a lot more. But
just start out with this so that you're
able to understand how it works. Now the
next thing that we're going to do is to
go ahead and we are going to create a
short hair just like this for our
character. To create this short hair, we
are going to need a scalp just like we
did for the eyebrows and the eyelashes.
So to create the scalp, I'm just going
to use the annotation line. I'm just
going to mark out where the scalp is
probably going to be for this character.
So we have something like this. I'm just
marking out the hairline. Just something
very simple like this.
Okay. And I'm going to go into edit mode
on our character. I'll just maximize
this and move this over to the other
side. And I can just select these pieces
right here. I'm just going to select
half for now. Select these pieces right
here. And we're going to extract this.
We're going to duplicate this just like
we did for the other ones. We're going
to duplicate this. And with this
selection, we're going to shape it a
little bit better to follow the shape of
the hairline that we just draw here. So,
I'm just going to select these ones. I'm
not going to select this other side for
now. We're going to mirror that over to
the other side. So, I'm just going to
come in here, select this part right
here.
Hold down shift and select this part.
Then I can also just come in here and
select these ones right here. Okay. Now
that we have something that looks like
this, we are definitely going to need to
go into edit mode and adjust this a
little bit more. But I'm just going to
duplicate this and P. I'm going to
separate this one into its own
collection or into its own object.
Something like that. I'm going to mirror
this one over to the other side. I'm
going to get rid of the subdivision
surface modifier on this. And now I'm
just going to extrude this out. So we
just doing a little bit of topology
here. I'm just going to move this one.
I'm going to turn on snapping. I'll move
this one into place right here.
Something that we can do is to add in a
shrink wrap modifier. So I'm just going
to add in a shrink wrap modifier. I'll
move this above the mirror modifier for
now. And I'll select the target as the
body topology just so that that snaps to
the surface of the sculpt. Something
that we can actually do before coming in
and manually editing this is to go into
sculpt mode. Then I'm going to come here
to the object properties. I'm going to
turn on the wireframes so that I can see
the wireframes. And then I'm going to
make use of the grab brush. And I'm just
going to push this into place.
just so I can't follow that annotation
line that we drew out a little bit
earlier.
So, just something like this. We don't
really need to be too accurate with it.
We can always still use texture marks
just like we use for the eyebrows to be
able to tell the hair where we want it
to sit. But I'm just going to place this
to follow the shape of the hairline. I
can also use the relax light brush and
then just relax this out. Something like
this. I'll push this ones into place. I
can push this one up. Push this one down
a little bit with the grab brush. So, we
have something that looks like this. And
I'm going to in sculpt mode, I'm going
to duplicate and apply the shrink
modifier. And right here, I can just
extrude this one to follow the shape of
the hairline. And I can create a new
face right there.
Okay, I can create a new face right here
and another new face right here. And I'm
just going to create new faces. So, I'm
going to extrude this one this way.
Just follow the shape that we have right
here. Can create a new face right there.
I can merge these two vertices together.
And then I can select these ones and
create a new face right there. Can also
create some new faces right here.
Okay. And then let's just fill up this
empty space that we have. I'm going to
change my pivot point back to the median
point just so that it's easier to edit
this a little bit. Okay. And I can
create a new face right here. I can
select this one and merge it at the
center right there. And I can delete
this one. I can create a new face here.
And then I can also just get rid of this
edge and then create a new face right
there. So you're going to have to figure
out how to just connect that just to so
just like topology but you don't need to
be particular with the shape of the
topology. So I'm just going to use the
relax light brush just to smooth out the
geometry. Something like this. Okay.
You're going to notice that faces added
in here. To remove those faces we can
press alt W and then we can see faces
from visible. Okay. Now we have
something that looks like this. I'm just
going to make this look a little bit
nicer in front.
Okay, so this is going to be our scalp
object. Let's apply all the modifiers.
Ctrl A, visual geometry to mesh. Now,
let's make sure that we have UVs. So,
I'm just going to U and unwrap and base.
And you're going to notice that this is
not unwrapping properly. And this is
because we have pins. So, I'm just going
to select everything, Alt P to remove
any pins. And then we can unwrap this
properly. And then I'm also just going
to clear the seams. Okay, Ctrl E. And
then clear the seams. And then U. I'm
going to unwrap this. So we have
something that looks like this. You can
use minimum stretching or unwrap angle
B. Doesn't really matter in this case.
I'm just going to scale this and move it
somewhere around here. So something like
this is going to be completely fine for
the scalp. I'm going to erase this
annotation lines. We don't need them
anymore. And I'm just going to turn off
the wireframes. Okay. So now we have
that scalp object right here. Now we are
going to add in the hair. Let me just
rename this. I'm going to rename this to
hair
scalp. And I'm going to move this into
our scalp collection right here. I'm
just going to toggle down this ones. And
I'm going to the scalp. Shift a curve.
And I'm going to add in an empty hair
right here. You're going to notice that
that is parented to the hair scalp. I'm
going to rename this one to short hair.
Okay. Now on the short hair, we can go
into scul mode and we can start adding
in new hair guides for this one. So this
hair, we can keep it as one volume. So
let's just break down this hair. We can
keep this hair as one volume. And then
we're just going to groom it into place
instead of separating it into different
parts. So let's just keep this as one
volume. So I'm going to start adding in
hair guys. And the way I'm going to add
in the hair guides is with the density
brush right here. On the density brush,
I'm going to reduce or increase the
guide distance.
And if I just add in here, I'm going to
for now I'm going to go to the render
properties and I'm just going to change
this to strand just so I can groom this
a little bit better. And something like
this is fine. I'm going to adjust the
length is way too long for this kind of
hairstyle.
So, under CV shape, I'm going to adjust
the length to 0.01.
Okay. And let me see what that looks
like. That's probably too short. I'm
going to increase this to 0.07.
And that's too long. Let's take this to
0.05
right here. Okay. Something like this is
going to work. I'm just going to take
this to 0.04.
Okay. So, now we have something that
looks like this. And with the density
brush, I'm just going to go ahead and
just add in the hair strands everywhere
on the hair.
Okay, I'll make sure I'm not missing any
spots anywhere.
Okay, now we have the hair strands in
place. This might be a little bit too
much. So, we can come in here. I can
increase the distance minimum. So, I can
just change this to 0.02.
And we can reduce the amount of hair
strands. I think that's too much. I'm
just going to say this to 0.013.
And then I'm just going to reduce the
amount of hair strands that we have just
so that we can actually groom this a
little bit effectively. So I'm just
going to go around the whole hair and
make sure that the hair I just at a
distance of 0.013.
So just adding in and removing hair with
the density brush.
Okay. Now we have something that looks
like this. Okay, let's take a look at
this hair once again. The hair right
here, we have this part going downwards.
So we're just taking a look at the
direction. This part is going downwards.
This part in front is coming forward and
kind of this way and also going up. This
part is probably is probably going down
based on what I can see on the
reference. And the back is probably also
going down too. So now let's just go
ahead and let's comb in these different
hair directions. We can use the comb
brush and I'm just going to make a clear
separation. I'm going to make use of the
projected option right here. And I'm
just going to bring this one down this
way.
Okay. I'll make sure that there's a
clear separation between the top and the
bottom right here or the top and the
side. And then I'm just going to comb
this one down right here.
Okay, from the side, I'm going to bring
these ones down too.
At the ear, right here, you want to make
sure that we put some hairs in front.
And then we make sure that there's no
ear like on the ear and there's no hair
on the ear.
So, we want something like this on the
front right here. You can have something
that looks like this. So, you're just
going to use the comb brush and start to
comb this one into shape to something
that you feel like or it should look
like. So, something like this. I'm going
to make use of the comb brush. And then
just comb this into place.
And right here, I'm just going to comb
this one into place. Something like
this. I can brush these ones down.
Also from the side, I'm going to make a
clear pattern on the side here.
Okay, something like that. On this side,
I'm going to curve these ones a little
bit. I'll make sure that there's a clear
separation that no ear that no hair is
on the ear.
Okay. And I'm just going to move this on
about something like this. And I'm going
to bring this one in
from the side. I'll make sure that this
looks good.
Okay. I can push this one out a little
bit. And then at the top here, I'm going
to just bring this on this way.
And I'm also just going to move them
forward. I'll switch to this fair brush
right now. I'll just move these ones
forward.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like this. Some of it is going to be
going upwards. So, I'm just going to
angle some of these ones up
just based on the direction that we saw
from our reference.
And I'm going to switch to the
projected. I'm just going to comb this
one into place. So you can see the way
we are switching between the sphere and
the projected. It's not just one size
fits all. We're going to be switching
between those constantly to get what we
need.
I'm going to select this curve right
here.
And then I'm going to comb this one
down.
Okay. I can select all the other curves
and then just move these into place.
We're going to switch to the sphere
option.
Going to push this one in. Push this one
in. Start to push this one out. So, just
something that looks like this. I'm
going to bring these ones forward.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like this. So, this is going to be our
guide here. Also, one thing I'm going to
do on the side here, I'm just going to
make use of the ging brush and we can
shrink down the hair at the side right
here
so that the length is not as long as
what we had at the top. So, something
like this is definitely looking good at
this stage.
Okay, I like what that is looking like
right now. So now we have been able to
create the guide here. Now we are going
to interpolate the guide here. Instead
of using the modifiers, we are going to
use this in geometry nodes. So I'm going
to select this here. I'm going to come
down here and I'm going to switch this
to the geometry node editor. Okay, we're
going to have something that looks like
this. This is the surface deform
modifier. If you go to the modifiers,
you're going to notice that you didn't
add this modifier. Blender automatically
adds it when we add in the curve object.
So, we don't want to play around with
this one. Let's just go ahead and let's
add in a new geometry node right there.
Okay. And I'm going to name this new.
I'm going to rename this to short hair.
Okay. And now we can go ahead and we can
start playing around with what this
looks like. I'm going to add in the set
course profile. So, let's just change
this to the render properties. Let's
change the curve shape to strip. And
then we can set the hair course profile.
Something like this. And if you wanted
to, you could actually leave the hair
like this. This is definitely something
that looks stylized. But we are going to
go further on this one. I'm going to
change this to.1 mm. Okay. And you can
see how thin the hair is. I'm going to
just bring this one out right here. And
I'm going to place it here. So let's
interpolate this guide here. I'm going
to drag and drop in the interplate hair
curves right here. And we are going to
need to set up the surface. So the
surface I'm going to select the hair
scalp right there. And then the surface
UV map we also need to set up. So I'm
just going to drag this out. And then
I'm going to add in a named attribute.
So we need to add in our UV map. To be
able to see the name of your UV map,
just go to the data object data
properties. You can copy it from here
and then paste it right there. Okay.
You're going to notice one of these H
return. Let's increase the density. I'm
going to increase this to a really high
value. Something like this. And you can
definitely start to see what we have on
the hair. This is starting to look like
here. I'm going to copy the black color
that we have here. Ctrl C. And I'm just
going to paste it on this one just so
that we can see it a little bit better
in the view port. And we definitely need
to increase this a lot more. All right.
So, now we have something like this. You
can definitely see what that's looking
like. You can go back into sculpt mode
and definitely start to comb this into
place to get more of what you actually
want. I'm just going to push this one
down a little bit more.
Okay, something like that. And then
right here, I can also just adjust the
shapes of this one right here.
I can push this up a little bit so that
shape still looks so I still look like
it has some volume on it.
All right, this ones I'm going to move
them forward.
And I'm going to bring this one up.
All right. Now, we have something that
looks like this. We can use this and
just adjust the shape of the hair into
something more of what we want. So, I'm
just adjusting the shape in the sculpt
mode. Okay. Now we have something that
looks like this. This looks really,
really nice. I'm going to make use of
the comb brush to comb this into place.
All right. And this is the interpolate
hair curves that we have right here. Let
me take a look at our reference. So you
have been able to interpolate the curves
right now. So let's go ahead and let's
clump the hair. So I'm going to add in
the clump hair curves right here. And
I'm just going to drag and drop this one
right here. Under the guide map, we can
reduce this to be able to play around
with this a little bit more. Let's
uncheck the existing guide map. I'm just
going to play around with this. And
you're going to see what we having. I'm
going to reduce this to value of 0.01.
And let's see what that gives us. Okay.
I like what that's giving us. I'm going
to increase that a little bit more to
0.015.
All right. So that we start to have
something like this. So this is going to
be our primary clumps. We're going to
have clumps inside of these clumps which
is going to be our secondary clumps.
Okay. So on this primary clump I'm going
to reduce the factor here.
Okay. So we're going to have clumps
inside of these clumps. And the way we
are going to do that if we're using the
modifiers you just add in another clump
air curves right here. But since we are
making use of geometry node editor,
there are some interesting things that
we can do and I'm going to show you
right here. So we can tell or we can use
some of this here as the clump guide
distance. So let me just show you. I'm
going to drag out of here. I'm going to
add in a delete geometry node. Okay. So
all these nodes that I'm about to add
in, you start to get used to them once
you use them a couple of times. Okay. So
just change this to spline
and then I'm going to make a selection.
So I just want to delete some hair and
I'm going to show you why we are doing
that. And we want to make a selection.
So I'm just going to drag out and we're
going to use a random value to make a
selection. So just type in random and
we're going to add in a random body. And
I can display this. If I just plug that
into the out group outfit, you're going
to notice right now we are deleting 50%.
So it says.5. So we deleting 50% of the
hair. I'm just going to increase this a
little bit more.
Okay. So we can have something like
this. I take this to 0.95
and let's see what we have. So what we
want to do with this hair now we going
to tell Blender that. So take a look at
this hair. All the other hairs beside
this clump it to this Hand. So to be
able to tell Blender to use this as
guide index, we need to be able to
convert this geometry into guide index.
And you're going to notice right here we
have this create guide index map. So I'm
just going to drag and drop that right
here. I'm going to move this one just
somewhere around here. So what we want
to do the clump head curves, you want to
plug that into the create guide index
map. And then this delete geometry, we
want to use those as guides.
All right. And now we have something
that looks like this. I'm going to add
in another clump hair curves right here.
And I'm going to plug the geometry into
the geometry. And under the guide map,
we are going to use this guide index
that we created here. So just make sure
to uncheck existing guide map. And we're
going to use the guide index. We're not
going to use the guide calls. We're
going to use the guide index. So just
drag and drop that inside of there. And
then to actually see what we are doing,
let's plug this into the group outfit.
Okay. So, let me just zoom in here and
you're going to see what we have. So,
this is the primary clumps or the
secondary clumps. I'm going to mute this
and you're going to see what's
happening. So, we have clumps inside of
the clumps right here. Okay, you can see
that probably if I just come in here.
So, we have clumps. Yeah, we have clumps
inside of our original clumps. So, I'm
just going to enable that. So, I'm just
pressing M to mute this. Okay. So, we
can come in here and we can play around
with some of these settings. I'm going
to increase the interplace hair curves
right here just so I have some more I
have some more curves to work with right
here. I'm going to go back into sculpt
mode and I'm just going to use the comb
brush. Just comb this one into place.
Something like this. And you're going to
notice it's lagging a little bit. So
this because we have a lot of children
here. So you can come down here to the
interpolate hair curves under the
viewport amount. You can change this
to.5 so I don't have too many and you'll
be able to comb that a little bit
better.
So we have something that looks like
this.
And also something that looks like this.
Okay, I'm going to increase this back to
one to see what we have. Okay, this is
definitely looking good. You can
definitely come in here and play around
with the geometry nodes modifier a
little bit. I highly advise that you
come in here and play with what some of
these settings look like. So, you can
even get here that looks like this.
Okay. I'm just going to undo that. Okay.
And the next thing that we're going to
do is to add in some noise right here.
So to add in some noise, I can come in
here and I can select the hair C noise.
I'm just going to add in the noise right
there. I'm going to increase the scale
of the noise.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like that. I'm also just going to
uncheck relative offset. I'm going to
increase the scale of the noise.
And then I'm also going to increase the
scale along the curves.
Okay, now you can definitely start to
see the noise happening. So, you're just
breaking off the perfection that we have
on the hair. We can definitely increase
the distance a lot more if you wanted
to. Okay, we have something like that.
So, right now all the hair have the
noise which is not exactly what I want.
So, what we can do in this case, we
could actually make use of the separate
geometry. So, I'm just going to type in
separate geometry. right here.
And this is similar to the delete
geometry. And I'm going to show you how
they are similar. We're going to connect
the geometry coming out from the clump
head course into the geometry of the
separate geometry. And we're also going
to choose a selection. So I'm just going
to choose a random selection right here.
I'm going to plug that selection into
the group output so that we can see what
we have a little bit more. I'm just
going to choose about
I'm going to go down to about 20%.25
is going to be fine. And on this hair, I
just want the noise to be on this hair.
And for every other hair, so that's the
inverted selection. They shouldn't have
noise. So here's what I'm going to do.
I'm going to plug that selection into
the geometry right here. And I'm going
to plug the hair cuff noise into the
group output. And you're going to notice
that how only those curves that we just
selected or those hair that we just
selected only those ones have the noise.
So we can play around with the distance.
Can play around with the shape a little
bit more.
You can play around with the scale along
the curve and just get it to somewhere
to where you actually like it to be. And
the offset per curve too. You can play
around with that. I'm going to reduce
the scale to about 10. And you see what
that looks like. Okay. something like
that. Now to bring back our inverted
selection, we are going to use a join
geometry node. So I'm going to search
here for a join geometry right here. So
we're going to join the hair that have
noise with the hair that don't have
noise, which is this inverted selection.
So let's just join those together. And
now let's see what we have. So we can
see that some of the hair has noise and
some of the hair don't have the noise.
So that is one way that you might want
to approach adding noise to the hair of
your character. I'm going to increase
the interpolate hair curves density
right here. Okay. So we can start to see
kind of hairstyle that we have right
here. So this is how you approach
creating the short hair. Go in and play
around with these values with all these
modifiers. You can also add in more
modifiers if you know how to use
geometry nodes and make something that
looks a lot more interesting than this.
Okay, now I'm going to show you how we
are going to approach creating this
hairstyle. Let's just first of all
analyze the hairstyle. So right here, if
I was to create this inside of Blender,
the way I would do it is to go ahead and
just break this one into its own volume
inside of Blender. So this is going to
be one part of the hair. And then I'll
treat this part like another part of the
hair. So we have both for the left and
for the right side. And then we'll have
the ponytail right here. So just
something short like this like what I
can see on the concept right there. So
this how I'm just going to approach
creating this hair inside of Blender. So
let me just get started with that one
right now. I'll just move this over here
just so I can see it at all points in
time. And now I'm going to hide the
short hair. I'll select the scalp. Make
sure that that is selected. And then
shift A. I'm going to add in a new C.
We're going to add in an empty hair. And
now we are going to go ahead and we're
going to start placing the head. We're
going to be doing this in scul mode as
usual. I'm just going to reduce the size
of this. Okay. And we're going to start
off with the ad brush. And just before I
get started, I'm going to so right here,
I know that there's a pattern on the
hair. So, I'm just going to mark out
where I want that pattern to be with the
annotation tool. So, I want the pattern
to be somewhere around here. Okay. So,
it's going to stop right here. And then
I'm just going to draw the outline of
the hair just so I can know where I'm
going to be placing the hair once I
start placing them down. So, just go
around the head and I'll get something
like that. Okay, I like what I think.
I'm going to just select this one and
let's go back to the art brush. So, what
I'm going to do right now is just to go
around the perimeter of the hairline to
start adding in the hair. So, I'm going
to start with one right here. Let me
make sure XM3 is Thunder. And I'll also
just change some settings for the points
here. I can set this to 30. And I'm
going to start with this one right here.
I'm going to go to the render
properties. I'm going to change this for
now. I'm going to change this to strip.
The curve, I'm going to change that to
strip. And then I'm going to make use of
the comb brush to just comb this one
into place. I'll change my brush to the
projected option so that it's a little
bit easier to comb in. At this point,
I'll hold down shift, smooth this out a
little bit. And when you're combing in
hair like this, you want to make sure
that remember that your hair has volume.
So, you want to leave some space between
the head and the hair strand. So that
way the hair still has volume when we
interpolate and add in more guide here.
So I'm just going to leave some space
right there. So just something like
that. And I'm going to bring all the
hair to the back. Just following what I
have in the reference. I'm going to
bring all of this to the back. I'll turn
off pressure sensitivity so that that's
not affecting right now. Bring all this
to the back. And I need to grow this one
out like this. And I'll come from the
side here. I'll push this one down a
little bit. So just something like this.
And then from the top view, I can bring
this in here. So I just want all the
hair to meet here. So as you can see,
it's packed with a hair band here.
Everything is just going to meet right
here. And I'm just going to comb this
one into place. Okay. I'll make sure
that nothing is intersecting. So I'm
just going to make use of the comb
brush. Just comb this out of the hair.
Make sure I have space between the hair
and the head. So, I just bring this one
out and I'll hold down shift. I'm just
going to smooth over this. I'm going to
grow this one out a little bit. And I
just want everything to meet at a point
right here. So, now we have some that
looks like this. I'll toggle overlays.
Just make sure I like the shape. And I'm
going to
going to go back into solid mode. And
I'm going to bring this one up. I'll
hold down shift and I'll just smooth
that out. Okay. So, now that's the
first. I'm going to just add in another
one right here. Okay, something like
this. And then I can use the comb brush
and I'm going to comb this one into
place. Remember, we still want to leave
some space between the head and the hair
strand. So, I'll just do something like
this. Okay. And when you get to the
middle here, the comb brush might
conflict because the estimate is turned
on. So, you can just reduce the size of
the comb brush so that it doesn't
conflict with this other hair on the
other side. I'm going to switch to the
growing brush and I'll just grow this
one down and I'm going to bring this to
somewhere around here. I'll reduce the
brush size. I'll grow this hair out and
I'll just place it something like this
from the side. I'll make sure that that
looks good. So, everything is going to
come in here. Nice. I'm going to just
select this first hair I added in. I'll
make sure I select the whole curve and
I'm going to grow this one out. And with
the comb brush, I'm just going to push
this one into place. I can select both
of them and then just push them into
place. Okay, now we have some that looks
like that. I'll come in here from the
side and I'm going to add in another
hair sh. And I'm just going to do the
exact same thing. And at this point, I'm
going to add in a time lapse since this
is going to be a little bit repetitive.
So, I'm just going to add a time lapse
at this point cuz you already know the
gist of creating. So, I'm going to speed
it up a little bit so that you can just
watch this and get a clearer idea of
what hair grooming feels like.
[singing]
>> 
>> Oh,
all All right. And now that we have this
initial guides in place, I'm going to
show you a setting that's going to make
adding in this hair guides a little bit
easier. So, right now, when we add in
new hair guide, you see the way it just
stands up straight. Well, if you
remember when we added in the inate hair
codifier, he added in children hair to
follow the shape of the hair that we
already had in place. We can turn on
that option for the ad brush. So from
the curve shape right here, we can make
the ad brush interpolate the length and
also interpolate the shape. So if I add
in a new hair strand right here based on
the hairs hair strand that we've already
added, it's going to estimate where this
new hair should be. So it's a little bit
easier instead of starting from a
straight  hair strand. It's a
little bit easier. It's going to make
the grooming process a lot faster. So
right now at this point I'm just going
to go in and add in  way more
guide hairs just going around the
perimeter of the hair.
Oh,
Oo.
Oh.
Oh.
>> 
>> Oh,
hey.
>> 
>> Oh. 
Ah,
Okay. And this looks like enough CSVs.
You might still need to go in and add in
more CSVs, but let's check what this
looks like when we interpolate the hair.
So, I'm just going to go to the
modifiers here. I'm going to add in a
new geometry node right here. And I'm
just going to call this main hair.
should actually also rename the curve
too. I'm going to rename this one to
main.
Okay, now let's add in some modifiers.
I'm going to move this one over to this
side.
Okay, and now we're going to add in some
modifiers. First off, I'm going to add
in the set hair call profile right here.
I'll just place that right there. And I
will set the render properties. I'll set
this one back to strip. And let's adjust
this. I'm going to take this 2.1 mm.
All right, that looks good. And now we
can go ahead and we can interpolate this
and we'll see what this looks like. So,
I'm going to drag and I'm going to drop
the interpolation modifier right there.
I'm going to choose the hair scalp. And
then for the UVs, I'm going to add in a
named attribute. I'll copy the UV map
name from here. And then I'm just going
to paste it right here. And let's
increase the density to see what we
have. All right. So this is currently
what we have on the hair. So right now
hair is interpolating from everywhere on
the hair scalp. If I just isolate this,
you're going to notice that hair is
coming out everywhere on the hair scalp,
but our guides are only at the edges. So
what we going to do at this point is to
blend just to only bring out hair from
where we actually added in guys. And
we're going to do that with a texture
just like the way we did it for the
eyebrow. So I'm going to go I'm going to
select the hair scalp here and I'm going
to go into the texture paint workspace
right here. I'm going to create a new
image and I'm going to call this one
main hair density just like this. And I
can change this to a 2K texture time two
and also times one by two. And I'll
create a new image right there. I'm
going to make sure I save this image.
So, I'll just change this to the image
editor. I'll open up that image right
there. And then alt S. I'm going to put
that into my textures folder right
there. Okay. Now, we have this black
color everywhere. We're going to paint
in white where we want or where we only
added in hair guys. So, I'm going to
switch to the white brush there. I'm
going to make sure I'm on the paint
brush. And then I'm just going to paint
in these areas like this. I'll turn off
pressure sensitivity for now. And then
I'm just going to paint in these areas
like so. Just go around it and paint
something that looks like this. Okay. So
that looks like this is going to be
fine. We can still come back to adjust
this if you need to. I'm just going to
paint around like this. All right. This
looks good. I'm going to isolate and
bring back everything. And I'm going to
select the main hair density. All right.
So you can see that working just exactly
the way we want it to. I'm going to
change the view port display here just
to a black color so that we can see this
a little bit better in the view port.
Okay. And let me increase the density
right here.
Okay. This is looking nice. Just exactly
what we want right here. You can
definitely go in and add in some more
guides to make this a little bit smooth,
but I'm just going to leave it at this.
I'll adjust the hair sh a little bit
later on after this recording, but for
now this is going to be fine. All right,
next thing I'm going to do is to add in
some clumping. I'm just going to make
sure to save this image. Alt S to save
this image and then I'll switch this
back to the asset browser. All right,
I'm going to add in some clumping right
here. I'll add in the clump hair curves
and I'm going to use the guide index
from the interpolate hair curves. this
one right here. And this is just the
main heads that we added in. So if you
see the hrands that we added in is what
the guide index here is using. Okay. Now
we have something that looks like this.
I'm going to change up the shape a
little bit. So I'm just going to change
this about8.
All right. Something like that looks a
lot better for the clumping. And I like
what's happening right here. Something
I'm going to do to fill up these pieces
is I'm going to blend in this hair
together. So, we can use the blend hair
curves here. So, I'm just going to drag
and I'm going to drop this one right
here. And we're going to change the
blend radius. I'm going to change this
to 0.01.
Okay. And now I've been able to fill in
some of those pieces. So, I'm just going
to press M here. And you're going to
notice what we're having. Okay.
Something I'm going to show you right
here. You're going to notice that
Blender is not respecting our pattern.
For now, I'm just going to mute this cuz
I want to show you something. So, right
now, Blender is not respecting our
pattern. So, if you played around with
the interpolate hair curves modifier,
you might have noticed this part by mesh
island. So, we need different mesh
island on let me just minimize this on
our hair scalp to be able to part the
hair correctly. So, I'm just going to
select the hair scalp. I'll isolate this
one. And then we need to separate the
hair scalp into different parts. So
right here is where the Let me just turn
off the annotation. Right here is where
the pattern is. So I'm going to select
these edges here and V to separate them.
So now the left side is different from
the right side. And then I'm also just
going to select right here.
And then I'm going to separate this one.
So now I have the left side, then I have
the right side, and then I have the
remaining sides of the head. Okay, so
this is exactly what we want. I'm going
to go back into object mode, and you're
going to notice Blender is now expecting
the pattern. Okay, that looks good. I'm
going to turn on the blend hair c. And
now you're going to notice that when we
blended everything together, our pattern
is no longer there. So, we just need to
tell the bend hair curves not to affect
that area, that parting, that middle
right there. So, the way I'm going to do
this is with a vertex group. I'm going
to select the hair scalp and I'm going
to go back right here and I'm just going
to select these faces. For these faces,
I don't want it to be affected by the
blend hair curves. If you noticed on the
blend hair curves here, we have this
factor. So, we are going to plug the
vertex groups into this factor. So, I'm
just going to go back to the hair scalp
right here, and we're going to create a
new vertx group. I can delete this one,
and I'm just going to create a new vertx
group. I'm just going to name this one
pattern. Okay, something just like that.
And I'm going to make an inverted
selection so that this actually works
well. So, Ctrl I to invert everything.
And these faces, these vertics, I'm
going to assign them to the pattern.
I'll go back into the object mode and
I'll select the hair and right here
we're just going to drag out a named
attribute and we are going to add in the
pattern right there. Okay. And now you
can see what we have. The hair is still
blending or is respecting our pattern
right there. Okay. I like what we have a
lot more. To fill up these faces, we
going to need to increase the
interpolate hair C. But for now, I'm
going to leave it so that the view port
doesn't lag a little bit. So once I'm
done with the hairstyle, I'm going to
come in here and I'm going to increase
that. Okay, the next thing that we want
to do is to add in some noise. So we are
still following the same steps here. We
created the guide hair. We interpolated
the hair. We clumped the hair. Now let's
go ahead and let's add in some noise.
We're going to add in some noise the way
we did for the last hairstyle. So for
the short hairstyle. So the way we did
that, I'm just going to drag out here.
I'm going to add in a separate geometry
right here. And I'm just going to
maximize this. We need a selection. And
for that, I'm going to choose a random
selection or a random value here. Make
sure that your separate geometry is set
to spline. So we want to separate each
individual curve or each individual
spline. We don't want this to be on
point. So make sure that that is on
spline. I'm going to plug this directly
into the group outfit. And I'm just
going to choose a percentage here
about.1.1
or somewhere around here is good. So
only these ones are going to have the
noise on them. And then every other
thing will look really nice and smooth.
So I'm going to add in the hair curves
noise right here. And I'm going to place
this one right here. I'm going to
uncheck cumulative offset. And I'm going
to increase the scale right here. And
also the scale along curves. I'm also
going to increase that one. And then I
can also play around with the density
with the distance. So I'm going to
increase this up to about 0.02.
Okay. Let's see what we have there. I
can check cumative offset and just see
what this gives me. Okay, the
commumative offset actually looks good.
So I'm going to leave in this one for
now. the shape. I'm going to change down
the shape to 02. But I start a little
bit earlier on from the hair. All right.
And I'm going to reduce the factor just
a little bit. I can reduce right here. I
can reduce the number of hairs are being
affected. I'm just going to reduce this
a little bit.
Okay. Something like this. And now let's
join this hair that have noise with the
ones that don't have noise. So I'm just
going to add in a join geometry node
right here. And I'm going to plug that
on the head noise the head have noise
into the join geometry and then our
inverted selection. So the rest of the
curves. So I'm just going to plug that
here and let's preview that in the
outfit. All right, that is already
looking nice. Let me just take a look at
our reference. I can see we already have
just exactly like what we have on the
reference. I like what that looks like.
You can definitely come in here and
adjust the parameters on here, but I'm
just going to leave it like this for
now. Something else that I would like to
do, I'm just going to duplicate the
setup here. The separate geometry and
the random value. I'm going to minimize
this. Shift D to duplicate this one. And
then I'm going to plug this right here.
So, I'm going to plug the section into
the group outfit. And I'm just going to
change the seed so that it's not the
same as what we had on this other side.
So, what I want to do on this hair, I
want to trim them down and I want to add
in a lot of noise. So, if you notice on
the reference, we have some of this hair
that are really short and have lots of
noise on them. So, that's what I'm going
to do right now. I'm going to trim down
this hair curves. So, let me find the
trim hair course. This one right here.
And I'm going to place it there. Okay.
You're going to notice that the length
is going is not doing exactly what we
want. We going to uncheck replace
length. And we want to play around with
the length factor. So if I just bring it
down to 0.1, you're going to notice that
all the hairs are now at like 10%
instead of 100%. Okay. So for this
length factor, I want to randomize it a
little bit. So I'm going to come in
here. I'm going to add in a curve info
node. We going to use the random
selection. And we're just going to do
that. And then to actually be able to
control the length, we are going to add
in a random value. So just search for
random value and I'll place this one
right here. I want this random to be
inside of the ID and I'll just bring
this out here. So the minimum length
should be zero. I'll leave that that.
And then the maximum length should be
about 2. Okay. Now you're going to see
that we have different hair lengths for
these hairs that we just trimmed down.
Okay. And that looks nice. Now let's add
in a little bit of noise to this one.
I'm going to come here to the hair cuffs
noise. I'm going to drag and drop it
right here. And for this one, I'm just
going to increase the scale and the
scale along C. So, we have something
that looks like this. I can also
increase the distance. I'll take that up
to 0.02.
Okay, I'll see what we have there. And I
might just trim this down a little bit
more. I'll take this down to 0.1.
And I'll check preserve length here.
Let's see what this looks like. I'll
take this up to.3.
Okay. Something like this. For the shape
here, I'll take this down to zero. Okay.
I'll take this down to 0.1. Let's see.
All right. Now, we have something that
looks like this. I can increase the
amount that we have right here. I'll
take this down to about 0.05.
Okay. And now let's join this back with
the remaining of the hair. So we can use
the join geometry once again. Shift D.
I'm going to duplicate this one right
here. I'll place it right here.
And then I'll plug the inverted
selection also into the join geometry.
And now we can see what we have right
here. You can also see what we have
right here. I'm going to increase the
number. So I just take this to.1.
Okay. And you can see I'll take this to
0.1 or 01. Okay. And now we can see what
we have right here. So this just going
to add some randomness to the whole
hair. That's going to make the hair
really interesting. Rather than making
everything look perfect and straight.
Okay. So this looks good for the hair.
For the main hair, I'm just going to
increase
the density right here. and I'll see
what that looks like. Okay, I'm
definitely liking the way this is
looking. Now, let's go ahead and let's
just do this side of the head. Just not
to make this recording a little bit too
long. I'm just going to do the left side
and I'm going to show you the approach
for doing that. And then we go ahead and
we do the ponytail. So, to add in the
left side, we're going to add in another
hair curve. So, shift a curve. Let's add
in an empty hair right here. on this
empty hair, you can go into the scores
mode and we're going to add in some
hair. So, we're going to add in some
hair in front right here. Just going to
use the add brush and adding a hair
strand right there. I can slide this one
over to the other side. Okay. And on
this one, I'm just immediately going to
add in a geometry node. And then I'm
going to set the hair course profile.
I'll make a new geometry node right
there. You should make sure to name this
so that I can actually know what they
are. So, I'm just going to name this to
left side here. Okay. You should also
name the curve right here. I'll copy the
name and I'll paste it right here. And
then I'm going to drag and I'm going to
drop the set profile right there. And
I'll just reduce this for now. Okay. So,
I don't just want to come here to the
render and keep on changing this. So,
I'm just going to add in the set echos
profile for now just so that I can work
with it as it is. And then I'm just
going to groom this one into place. So,
from what I can see on my reference
right here, this one is a little bit
close to the eye. So, I'm just going to
bring this this way. I'm going to hold
down shift to smooth out this areas
right here.
Okay. I'm going to grow this one out a
little bit. And then I'm going to curve
it something like this. Also from the
side I'm going to curve it a little bit.
Okay. And I'm just going to go ahead and
I'm going to add in  more strands
just like this.
Ooh. [singing]
>> 
>> Oh.
Oh. 
Oh.
Okay. And now we have something that
looks like this. Let's go ahead and
let's interpolate this hair, guys. So,
I'm just going to drag and drop in the
hair curves right here. I'll make sure
to select the scalp object. And then I
can select the UV map. I'll add in a
named attribute right there. I just copy
the UV map from here. Ctrl C. And I'm
going to paste that one right there. And
I'm going to increase the density.
Okay. And now, right here, you're going
to notice the same problem that we had
with the main hair. The hair wants to
scatter or wants to be scattered
everywhere on the hair scalp. So, let's
just restrict it to just this area right
here. So, we are going to use another
texture. I'm going to select the hair
scalp. Going to go into the texture
painting workspace. I'm just going to
change it to the image editor. I'll make
sure I saved everything from this one.
Alt S to save there. And then I'm going
to create a new image texture. And I'm
going to call this left side hair. And
I'm going to create a new image right
there. I'm going to switch to the white
brush to a white color. And then I'm
just going to paint in just this side. I
don't need the X symmetry right now. And
I'm just going to paint in just this
side.
Okay. So, just something like that is
exactly what we want. I'm going to make
sure that I save this. Save right there.
I'm going to paint out this side. All
right. Something like this. Alt S to
save this. I'm going to change this back
to the geometry node editor. And I'll
make sure I [clears throat] have the
correct one selected. And I can now
select that left side image section.
Okay. Now we have something that looks
like this. I'm just going to increase
this. All right. Now we have something
that looks like this. Now let's clump
this together. I'm going to come here.
I'll drag and drop the clump head curves
right there. Okay. And I'm going to use
the guide index from the interl.
Okay. This is looking really nice.
Something like this is starting to look
really nice. I'm also just going to
adjust the
radius of the hair. Okay. And I can come
in here with the comb brush and I can
just comb these ones into place.
Something like that. Okay. I think I've
painted in a little bit too much texture
here. I'm going to select the hair
scalp. I'm going to go into the texture
painting workspace and I'm just going to
remove those parts that I didn't add
here.
Okay. So, something like this. It's
completely fine. I'm going to select
this previous main here. I'm going to
copy the color and I'm just going to
paste it on this one right here just so
that we can see this a little bit
better. Okay, this is definitely looking
good. I like how that's looking right
now. I increase the density a little bit
more. All right, now we have something
that looks like this. Let's go ahead and
let's add in some secondary clumps. On
this one, we can add in secondary
clumps. The way I'm going to do that,
I'm going to add in a separate geometry
node right here. And then for the
selection, I'm going to choose a random
value. Random value right here. I'll
make sure this is set to spline. I'll
just preview this in the group outfit.
I'm going to increase the number here.
Okay. I want to use a delete geometry,
not a separate geometry. So, I'm just
going to add in a delete geometry right
there.
And I'm going to change this to spline.
I'm going to add in a random selection,
a random value. And then I'll plug this
one into the group output. Okay. Now, if
I increase the probability so these ones
we're going to use as clump guides.
Okay. Something like that. Now, let's
actually convert to guides. I'm going to
add in the crit guide map right there.
I'm going to plug the geometry from the
clump head club curves into the create
guide index map. And then from the
delete geometry into the guides and now
I'm going to add in another clump hair
curve. So I'm just going to look for
that here. This one right here. And then
I'm going to drag and drop it right
here. I'm going to plug the geometry
into the geometry. And then under the
guide index, I'm going to plug this one
right here. And now let's preview that.
Okay. Now you can definitely see the
break up on the air. Let me just mute
this and unmute this. Okay, that's
definitely looking good. I like the way
that is looking. You can come in here
and we can play around with these
settings right here just so that we can
get something that looks a little bit
nicer. Okay, so just go in and play
around with these settings. I'm going to
leave it as it is for now. And then
let's go ahead and let's add in some
noise to actually make this look really
nice. For this, we're going to use the
separate geometry node right here. Make
sure this is set to spline. And then I'm
going to choose selection right here.
I'm going to make sure there's a random
value. And I'll just preview this for
now. I'm going to choose
about
this. [snorts] Yeah, this looks good.
And I'm going to add in noise on this
one. So, I'm just going to drag and drop
in the hair cuffs noise right there. I'm
going to increase the scale.
All right. Something that look like
this. I'll leave cumulative offset P on
for now. I think that actually looks
fine for this hair. Now, let's join
those together. So, I'm going to add in
a join geometry node right here. And
then I'm going to plug in the inverted
to the join geometry node. Okay, you can
definitely see what that looks like. I'm
just going to increase the scale here a
little bit more.
Okay, I'm going to actually uncheck
cumulative offset. I think it looks good
without cumulative offset, but you can
play around with that and see what
exactly gives you the best result. So,
this is how you do it. For the left side
of the hair, you can go in and add in
more curves. And then you just do the
same thing for the right side of the
head. So, for the right side of the
hair, you creating guide curves. And
then the only thing that you do
differently, you can use this exact same
node setup, but you have to paint in a
texture for the right side. Okay. Now,
I'm going to show you how to do the
ponytail right here. And for the
ponytail, we going to need a scalp
object right here. So, a scalp object
that's going to emit out the ponytail.
And for this one, we can just use a
plane. So, I'm going to add in a plane
right there. I'm going to name this
ponytail scalp. Okay. And I'm going to
make sure that that's in the right
collection. Okay. And I'll go into edit
mode. I'll just rotate this one. I'll
scale it down. And I'll just bring it up
right here.
Scale that down. Place it right here.
Okay. And then I'm just going to
subdivide this mesh twice. And then I'm
going to right click, loop tools, and
I'm going to make this a circular
object. Just so that where the ponytail
emits out from is a circular object.
I'll just place it right here. From the
side view, I'll just place it somewhere
around here. So for the ponytail, we're
going to have some of the hair coming
out like this. I'll just unhide this.
Have some of the hair coming out like
this. Some of the hair coming out like
this. And just based on what I can see
on the reference, we have some coming
out like this. Let me take a look at
this reference right here. We have some
guide hair coming out this way. We have
some guide hair coming this way. We have
some guide here doing some of this.
Okay. So, I'm just trying to plan out
the hair direction right here. Just
before I go ahead and start adding in
those hair guards. Okay. Something like
this. This looks a little bit messy
because of the hrant. is trying to draw
over the entrance, but that's fine. I
understand what this is meant to be. So,
I'm fine with that. Okay, I'm going to
go back into objects mode. And with the
ponytail selected, I'm going to add in a
new curve and I'm going to add in an
empty hair right here. I'm just going to
rename this one to pony tail.
And then we can go into scot mode and we
can start adding in hair guides right
here. We're going to add in a hair guide
right there. And right there, I'm just
going to add in a geometry node
modifier. I'm going to create a new one.
I'm going to name this pony Theo. And
then I'm going to drag and drop in the
set course profile. Now, just set in a
number for now. Make it something like
this. I'm going to shrink this one down
a lot.
All right. Something that looks like
that. And I'm going to make use of the
comb brush to just comb just start to
comb this into place. a little bit
small. So, I'm just going to go and I'm
going to comb in hair for the ponytail.
Ooh. [singing]
Oo.
Ooh.
>> 
>> Oh. 
>> 
>> Okay. And  for right now, this is
going to be enough course. So, we're
going to just do the exact same things
that we did right here. We are going to
go ahead and get started with the
interpolate hair curves modifier. I'm
going to drag and I'm going to drop this
one. Place it right there. I'm going to
make sure that the scalp is the
ponytail. And then I'm going to add in
the UV map. And I'm just realizing that
we didn't create UV maps for this. So,
I'm just going to go ahead right now and
I'm going to create a UV map. So by
default when we add in a plane, Blender
already creates a UV map on the plane.
So that's why it didn't prompt us to
create a UV map. So in this case, I'm
just going to go ahead. I'm just going
to unwrap a new one. Okay? And you're
going to get this kind of error right
here. If you get this type of error at
any point in time, you can just select
curve, select the scalp, and then Ctrl
P, and then you can just say object
attach curve to surface. And we
shouldn't have that error anymore. All
right, let's add in the UV map. I'm
going to go down here to named
attributes
and let's just add in that UV map right
here. Ctrl C. And I'm going to paste
this one right here. I'm going to move
this one to the back a little bit more.
And I'm going to increase the density
right here. Okay. Now, we have something
that looks like this. I'm going to
increase this a little bit higher. All
right. Now, we have something that looks
like this. Let's go ahead and let's comb
this. Before I do that, I'm just going
to change the radius of the hair strand.
Okay, something like that. And I'm just
not this looks a little bit too small
for this hairstyle. So, I'm going to
adjust that later on. But for now, it's
going to be fine. I'm going to increase
the density a little bit more.
Okay, something like this. And then I
can go ahead. Let me just minimize this.
I can go ahead and I can add in the
clump hair curves right here. And I'm
going to use the guide index right here.
Okay. Now we have something that looks
like this. I'm going to increase this a
little bit more. All right. Now let's
add in some noise on this hair. We can
do that with the separate geometry. So
let me just increase this. I'm going to
add in a separate geometry right here.
And make sure this is set to spline. The
selection is going to be a random value
right here. And I'm just going to
preview this into the group outfit. And
I'll just reduce the amount right there.
And then let's add noise on this one.
I'm going to add in the hair cuffs noise
node. And then I'm going to increase the
scale and the scale along co.
Okay. I'm going to reduce the shape down
to 0.1.
And I can also just increase the
distance. See what this looks like.
Okay. And I can also play around with
the factor a little bit more. Okay,
something like this is going to look
good. I'm going to add in the joint
geometry node.
And I'll place this one right here. And
now we can see what we have. We can
reduce the factor offset or can uncheck
community offset and see what that looks
like. Okay, that also still looks nice.
Okay, not too bad. I like what that
looks like. I'm going to increase the
density right here.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like this. I'm going to reduce the
distance here just like the noise is not
too much. I can reduce the scale of the
noise right here. Okay. So, this is
these are things that you can come in
and play around with the way this looks.
But this is the approach that you go
about for creating any hairstyle. So,
you can see how we're just using these
four steps to create any hairstyle. This
is going to be really useful to create
any hairstyle that you want to create at
all. So just first off create the guide
and interpolate the guide here. Adding
clumps and then adding noise. So you can
make it much more complicated than this.
But this should be a starting point for
you. Then once you know the principles,
you can always break the principles and
come up with your own thing. For now
let's go ahead and let's summarize this
chapter. So you've learned how to do egg
grooming. So you now know how you have
now seen how hair grooming works like
the subdivision surface modifier where
we use a few to control mini and you now
you have seen how modifiers in blender
actually make the hair look pretty. So
there's the modifiers in blender that
going to make the hair look pretty and
now you know the fourstep workflow for
grooming any kind of hair. If you need
any extra help, if your hairstyle is a
little bit more complicated than what we
have seen or than what we have covered,
just go ahead and join the stylish
academy where I'll be working with you
oneon one where I'm going to be holding
your hand every step of the process. And
if you're loving the master class so
far, if you have gotten to this stage,
go ahead and leave a review of the
masterass on Trust Pilot. The link is
going to be below this video. And I'll
catch you guys in the next chapter.
>> 
>> Welcome to chapter 11. In this chapter,
we are going to focus on shading and
texturing our character and agenda for
this chapter. First of introduce you to
everything that you need to know about
shading and texturing. And then I'm
going to show you my texturing workflow
that I like to use to texture everything
and anything. And then I'll show you
what PVR textures are cuz we're going to
be using that a lot. And then I'm going
to show you some Blender add-ons for
texturing. Some add-ons are going to be
useful when we get started with
texturing. And then we'll dive into
Blender. And then we actually going to
start shading and texturing our
character. All right. Make sure to share
this master class with someone. Let's
help more artists create work that they
are proud of. And for you right now,
this is the most important video in the
entire master class. So make sure to
watch the entire video. Don't skip any
part of this video. All right, let's get
started. What is texturing? Before we
get into shading, we need to understand
what texturing is. And a simple way of
explaining texturing is that it's the
process of applying images onto a 3D
model. Those images that we apply in the
process of texturing is what we call
textures. So this could be things like
your base color, your roughness map,
small scratch details that you add in,
logos, or any kind of image that adds
visual detail to your model. So these
textures are going to add visual detail
to your model. Keep that in mind. So in
simple terms, texturing is how we add
visual information onto our character.
So that is what texturing is. Now let's
take a look at what shading is. Shading
is a little bit different from
texturing. Shading is all about defining
how a material is going to react to
light. So this includes how shiny an
object might be, includes how rough an
object might be, whether the object is
rough or even whether is transparent.
And important thing to understand here
is that shading can work with textures,
but it can also work without textures.
So in simple terms, shading is going to
control how your material is going to
behave under lighting. So even though
shading and texturing work together,
they are not the same thing. Texturing
is what adds visual detail while shading
controls how those details are going to
react to light. And when you combine
both of them properly, that's when your
materials really start to look good.
Okay. So this stage is where your
character really starts to come to life.
Up until now, everything that we have
been looking at has dealt on the forms
and on the shapes. But right now, we are
going to start adding personality to our
character. We are defining what things
are made of, how they feel, and how they
respond to light. And in this chapter,
I'm not going to overwhelm you with
everything that we can do with shading
and texturing, cuz there are a lot of
things that we can do. So, I'm just
going to show you what you need to be
able to make good-looking characters.
There are a lot of things that we could
do, all the nodes and all the workflows
for texturing, but I'm just going to
give you exactly what you need to know.
And if you have any previous knowledge
on shading and texturing, you can build
upon what I'm going to show you in this
chapter. Okay. So, let me show you my
texturing workflow. My texturing process
follows a very simple three-step
workflow. First off, we are going to
create materials and very simple colors.
So, this first step is what I like to
call the material blockout. At this
stage, we're not going to worry about
anything detail. We're just adding in
colors. They're just assigning simple
colors and basic roughness values and
also specular values so we can tell
exactly what each part of the character
is supposed to be. So just think of this
as laying down the foundations for our
materials. We're not thinking about
details. We just want to have basic
colors and be able to tell what part
what each part of the character is
supposed to look like. And then the next
step we are going to go ahead and we're
going to create textures. Once we have
the colors in place, the next step is to
start adding in textures. And there are
different ways that we can do this. So
we can paint in those textures. We can
make the textures. We can make use of
PBR maps. I'm going to explain what
those are in a minute. Or we can even
use vertx painting. So this is where we
start adding variation and detail to the
character. And then the last step is
going to be to go into those textures
and we're going to enhance our material
with procedural shading. This is the
final step that we're going to use to
refine everything and we're going to be
using procedural shading for that. So,
this is where we're going to use nodes
inside of Blender to improve our
material. We are going to add sort of
variation, break things up and just make
things feel very natural and very
polish. So, this is the three-step
workflow I like to use. First off, we're
going to create basic materials. Then,
we're going to create textures. Then,
we're going to enhance the materials
using procal shading. So, you're going
to see how we're going to use this step.
So, this keeps the process structured
and easy to follow. Okay. Now, let me
show you what PVR textures are. When we
talk about PBR, PBR stands for
physically based rendering. And what
that means is that it's a system that
helps material react to light in a more
realistic way. So PBR usually comes in
set of maps. And you have things like
your base color, which is the color of
the surface. You have the roughness, you
have the metallic, you're going to have
normal maps, you might have emission,
you might have ambient occlusion. So all
these maps are going to work together to
define how the material is going to
look. And some of the reasons that we're
going to be using PBR textures. Number
one, PBR textures work consistently
under different lighting. So in any
lighting setup that we put this PBR
where we use this PBR textures is going
to be consistent with all lighting
setups. And then also these are industry
standard. So with PBR textures, we can
export our textures out of Blender into
other softares like Unreal Engine, Maya,
3ds Max or whichever software you might
want to export to. So they can be used
across multiple softwares. And then a
big one is that they are widely
available online. So we can find these
textures everywhere online. That's going
to help us texture and shade our
character. So that's why we're using PBR
textures. Now I'm going to go through
what makes a good material. what makes a
material look good. And when it comes to
making good-looking materials is
actually very simple. Your material
should tell a little bit of a story. So
instead of just having flat colors,
think about things like is the clothes
worn out, is it new, is it clean, is it
rough? So when you ask questions like
this, you start to give you an idea of
what the material or what is the story
behind your material. So even small
details like that are going to make a
very big difference to your materials
and to your shaders. So instead of just
leaving it as a flat principled BSDF
node, you should add something to it
that's going to give it little bit of a
story. So you want to avoid materials
that feel too flat and too generic. If
everything has the same roughness, the
same color, no variation, your character
is going to look very boring and we want
to avoid that. So you always want to try
to add some sort of variation to make
things feel more natural. Okay. So
that's how you're going to make
materials that actually look good. Make
sure there is a bit of story to your
materials. Okay. Now I'm going to show
you some helpful Blender add-ons. Some
of these I'm going to be using. So there
are few add-ons that can really speed up
our workflow. The first one, this one is
inbuilt inside of Blender. This is the
node wrangler add-on. If you've never
enabled this before, I'm going to show
you how to enable it inside of Blender.
So the node wrangler is going to provide
various tools that will help us work
with nodes quickly and more efficiently.
This one is going to be really really
nice to have. So that's the first add-on
which is a node wrangler add-on. The
next add-on that we're going to be
taking a look at is the poly haven
addon. And this add-on is actually one
that I'm going to be using while we
working in this chapter. So the poly
haven addon, let me just go to this side
right here. I'm going to leave a link to
this below this video. So let me just
make this clear. Poly haven is actually
free. So if you just go to the Poly
Haven website right here, you can find
all their HIS all their textures and all
their model for completely free and you
can download that and use them inside of
Blender. But with the add-on, you get
all the HI, all the models and all the
textures right inside of Blender. So you
just drag and drop it. And there are two
ways you can get this add-on. So you can
either sign up to their Patreon or you
can purchase it right here on Superhive.
Whichever way you decide to support the
artist, just go ahead and get the
add-on. I highly recommend that you get
the Poly Haven add-on. Okay, so the
Polyhaven add-on is one that I'm going
to be using in this chapter. Now, the
next add-on that you can also use is the
Blender kit add-on, which is similar to
the Polyhaven. So, you have you also
have HR eyes, you also have textures,
you also have models that you can use
when working inside of Blender. So, you
can also install this add-on inside of
Blender and to give you some of the same
functionalities that I had as the
Polyhaven add-on. Okay. And then the
last add-on that I'm going to show you
is the UK Paint Blender add-on. And if
you have not heard of the U Paint
Blender add-on, this is going to make
texturing 10 times easier inside of
Blender. I'm not going to be showing how
I use Google Paints in this master
class. If you want to see how I use
Paint, then you can join the stylish
character academy. There are other
videos inside there showing you how to
do that. But the Uber Paint add-on is
going to be really, really, really
useful when it comes to texturing cuz
now you have the abilities to paint on
layer. There's a lot of functionality
that we have with the paint add-on. So
you can explore that one if you want to,
but I'm not going to be showing you how
to use the paint add-on. I'm just going
to using the default Blender texturing.
All right. Now, at this stage, that's
all the fundamental that you need to
know about texturing and shading. Now,
we are going to actually dive into
Blender and we're going to start
texturing and we're going to start
shading our character. So, from the last
chapter, we should be somewhere around
here. So, I went in and I cleaned up the
hair for my character. I added in the
left side and also the right side and
also I cleaned up the back. I changed up
the style at the back a little bit more.
So, it should be somewhere around here.
And just before we start texturing and
before we start shading, we are going to
name all our objects properly and we are
going to organize our blend file. So
there are some things here that we're
not going to use anymore. So let's just
go ahead and name everything properly.
We're also going to organize it right
here. So this high poly collection, if
you've done everything right, you should
be able to right click on this and you
should be able to delete that hierarchy.
So if you have done everything right,
you should be able to delete it. Before
deleting that, just make sure to go up
here to file and then you can save as.
You can save another version of your
file just to make sure that you have a
backup. So, I've already done that. So,
I'm just going to go ahead. I'm going to
right click on this one and I'm going to
delete the hierarchy right there. And
everything should be working just fine.
Okay. Now, I'm going to rename this
collection. And the naming convention
that I'm using here is the one that I
got from the Blender Studio. So, this is
a character from the Blender Studio. So,
you can see the way that they name their
objects here. I'm going to be using this
same template to name the objects. So,
I'm going to show you how I do it for my
own characters. So, this low poly
collection here, I'm going to name this
ch and this is going to stand for
character. And for this character, I'm
going to name this character Jenny.
Jennifer is the artist that created the
concept that I'm using. So, I'm going to
name this character Jenny. So, ch Jenny,
which is going to stand for character
Jenny. Now, right here, the clothes
collection, I'm going to name this to ch
jenny
clothes. Okay, I'm going to remove the
topo from the back there. We don't need
that one anymore. Right here, I also do
the same thing. I'm going to rename this
to ch
jenny hairc. So, instead of having
spaces, we are going to use underscores
instead of having spaces. So, I'm going
to use underscore instead of having
spaces. So, that's the two collections I
have. So if you have any more
collections, you can just name them this
way. Now for all the objects, all these
geometry objects, I'm going to add, let
me just go back to the file right here.
You're going to notice this geometry
object, we have this abbreviation at the
front here, which is called GEO. So I'm
going to add that. That stands for
geometry. I'm just going to select all.
I'm going to batch rename. So you can
press Ctrl F2. And let me just turn on
screencast keys here. So you can press
Ctrl F2 to bring up the batch name.
First things before I add the go prefix,
I'm just going to come in here for all
these objects that have underscore, I'm
going to remove those. So with the
battery name right here, I'm going to
find and replace. So I'm going to find
underscore
and then I'm going to replace this with
nothing cuz I don't want anything there.
So I'm going to press okay. And it's
going to remove the underscore for us.
So I'm going to come to the battery
name. Ctrl F2 is shortcut. I'll go to
the type right here. I'll change it to
set name. And then I'm going to put the
method to prefix. Now I'm going to
change this to go EOC_.
And I'll just press okay to confirm
that. And now you're going to see for
every object it has the GEO
hair band. Actually something I want to
I'll just select everything again. And
instead of just adding GEO, we want to
make sure that we add the name of our
character too. So that in case we are
importing this character into another
file where there's going to be a lot of
animation with another character, you
don't want to mix up the meshes. So I'm
just going to add GEO
Jenny. And I'll press okay right there.
And that has not been named correctly
because I already added that before. So
what I'm going to do, Ctrl F2. I'm going
to find GEO
Jenny G_.
And I'm just going to replace that with
G Jennyore.
Okay. And then I'm going to press okay
right there. And now this is exactly
what I want for each of the geometry
objects. And let me just bring this down
here. So this exactly what I want. And
now on the curves, let me just select
just the curves. I'm just going to bring
this down. I have a lot of curves here.
So I have for the ponytail, I have for
the lower eyelashes and for the upper
eyelashes. And let me just name this
correctly. I'm going to come in here.
I'm going to name this upper lashes.
Upper lashes. And then for the bottom
one, I'm also going to do the same
thing. I'm going to name this lower
lashes right there. Okay, that looks
good. And for this short hair that we
created in the previous chapter, I'm
actually just going to delete this. I
know I don't need that anymore. Okay, so
on these cob objects, I'm just going to
select this. Okay, those are all the cob
objects and I'm going to rename this
ones from GEO to CUV. CUV stands for
core. So instead of geo underscore I'm
going to have cuv_.
Okay. So that just tells us that is a
call. Okay. And now that has changed the
name right there. Okay. Something else
I'm also going to do. I'm going to copy
the name. So I'm just going to copy this
name. And where we had a geometry node
modifier where we use geometry to create
this here. I'm going to rename the
geometry node to the name of the object.
So on this one we don't have any
geometry node set up here. I'm going to
find this one where we have a geometric
setup. I'm going to copy the name from
there and I'm just going to paste it
right there. Also the same thing right
here. I'm going to copy the name from
there and I'm going to paste it right
here. Just that we don't get this
confused with any other one. Ctrl C.
Then I'm going to paste this right here.
And then also the same thing. Okay, on
this one we don't have any geometry node
setup. And on this one we have geometry
node setup. I'm going to copy this and
paste it right there. Okay, now we have
been able to name our files correctly.
But you're still going to notice
something. If I just bring this down
right here, you can see on this hairband
object that I have right here, I have
this cube. So the let me just come down
here to the object data properties. It
still has the initial name that we used
when we added in this object. So what
I'm going to do, I'm going to come in
here. I can copy the name from here and
I can just replace the name right here.
So we could go in and we could do that
for all these objects, but I've just
written a very simple script to charge
that going to help us just rename
everything inside of our scene. So it's
going to take the name from our objects
and it's going to rename the object data
name. So let me just toggle this down.
You can see we haven't yet renamed this
one. I'm going to leave this very simple
script below this video so I can also
use this. So I'm going to just run this
script and you're going to see what it's
going to do. Let's take a look at this.
All right. And you can see that it just
renamed the object data to the name of
the object. Okay, I know that this
script doesn't work for CES. So, I'm
just going to go in on the CVE and I'm
going to manually do that one. Okay,
since we don't have that many objects
again, I'll just go in on the CVE. Ctrl
C. And I'm going to paste the name right
here.
Ctrl C. I'm going to paste the name
right there. And on this one, too. Ctrl
C. I'm going to paste the name right
there.
And also on the lashes too, Ctrl C. I'm
going to paste the name there. And I'll
just go ahead and do that for the lower
lashes. For the upper lashes, too. And
finally, for the ponytail right here,
Ctrl C. I'm going to paste it right
here. Okay. Now, we have been able to
name everything properly. So, the object
data has the same name as the object,
which is going to be really useful if we
are appending this character into
another file. So, it's good for us to do
this now just so that we don't have to
do it later on. So, let's just go ahead.
I'm just going to collapse all of this.
Okay, I'll collapse all of these right
here. Collapse this one, too. Okay, now
we have something that looks like this.
The naming convention is really clean
and it's really neat and we know what
everything is right here. One more thing
that I'm going to go ahead and do is to
go ahead and delete the vertx group. So
any unused vertx groups, I'm going to go
ahead and delete those vertx groups. So
on the body, I know that this notion
crab vertx group is not going to be used
again. I'm going to delete this one. On
the pony, we don't have any groups
there. If you see this icon anywhere,
then you know you have groups. On this
one, on the lashes, I don't need that
group. I'm going to delete that. On this
hair scal, we have this pattern that we
used to tell the geometry to respect our
pattern. So for this one, I'm going to
leave that group. I'm actually just
going to lock it so that we don't change
that up anymore. Then on the brow, I'm
going to delete this one. On the sket,
I'm going to delete all these V groups
that we used when we were shrinking
wrapping our objects. This one, I can
delete this one, too. And then also
delete this ones, too. Now, just come in
here and I'm going to delete all the
ones. And now we have some that looks
really nice. Okay, now with this in
place, we can go ahead and we can get
started with the texturing and with the
shading. So the workflow that outlined
for the texturing, first off, we are
going to create basic materials and
we're going to add a very simple color.
So that's what we're going to go ahead
and do right now. And for us here on my
character, I'm just going to mirror this
one over to the other side just so that
I can have an idea of what's going to be
on the left side. And then one more
thing before we actually go ahead and
start adding the materials and the
colors. If I go into the material
preview mode right now, you're going to
notice Blender is going to start
lagging. Especially if you have really
dense hair, Blender is going to start
lagging. So for us to combat that, I'll
go back into sculpt into the solid mode
right here. I'm just going to split up
my viewport. And right here on this hair
on the main hair, I'm going to go to the
geometry node editor. I'm going to make
sure from the modifiers I select
geometry node set up right here. I'll
just select that one right there. And
what we want to do on the interolate
here, make sure that the view port
amount here is plugged into the group
output right there. Just so that when we
come down here, we can easily adjust
this. So I'm going to go in for the left
side here. I'm going to make sure that
on the interpolate hair course, the
viewport amount is plugged into the
group impute. So that we have that
option here. Also going to do the same
thing for the left hair. So let me just
come in here. I'm going to drag in the
viewport amount into the group output
right there. And then also the same
thing for the ponytail right here. I'm
going to drag the viewport amount and
I'm going to plug that into the group
input. Okay. Now we have something that
looks like this. Now what I'm going to
do, I'm going to use this particular
slider as a driver for all these other
parts. Okay? So that we just change one
value and it changes for all of them. So
we just change the view port amount for
one object and it changes for all of
them. So I'm going to come in here on
the main here. I'm going to right click
and I'm going to copy this as a new
driver. And I'm going to come here on
the left. I'm going to right click and
paste that driver. You're going to
notice this is going to turn bubble.
You're going to see what that's going to
do in a bit. I'm also going to come in
here
on the right side. right click and I'm
going to paste that driver. And then
also on the ponytail, I'm going to right
click and I'm going to paste that
driver. Right. Now, if I select this
here and I reduce the view port amount
to 0.1, you're going to notice it's
going to reduce for every other thing.
And you can notice that the lag has
stopped very noticeably because we have
reduced the view port amount. So instead
of selecting all of them and changing up
the view port amount one by one, we can
just only change this one and then use
drivers to control the other one. So
I'll go back into material preview.
Okay, now you can see there's no much
lag anymore. I'm going to close this
panel right here. And we can get rid
right now of this UV checker grid. We
don't need this one anymore. So the way
I'm going to do that, I'm just going to
select any object right here. I'll go to
the material properties and I'm going to
remove that UV checker right there. And
now I'm going to add in a new material.
Now this material I want to transfer it
to all these other objects. So I'm going
to select all with a and this as the
active object or the object that has the
new material. Make sure that's the
active object. I'm just going to come in
here and then I'm going to copy the
material to every other selected object.
Okay. And now you're going to notice no
object has the UV checker grid which is
exactly what we want. Before we go ahead
and start adding in very basic materials
right here for the hair scalp. I'm going
to uncheck all these viewport place. So
for the scalps, we don't want to see
them in the view port. We also don't
want to see them in the renders cuz
these are just meshes where the hair is
sitted upon. So we don't really want to
see them. But our hair is still going to
be visible. So each of the hair attached
to the scalp is still going to be
visible. So that's exactly what we want.
So right there, I'm going to leave that
exactly like that. Now we can go ahead
and start adding very basic materials
onto each part of the character. So for
this, I'm going to just come in here and
I'm going to create a new material. This
is for the body. I'm going to name this
Jenny
skin. So I'm naming it Jenny skin for
the same reason that we renamed this
object here. Just so that if we put this
character into another file, we can
still recognize which object or which
material this object is using. Okay? So
that we don't get confused in case we
have many characters. So this is going
to be Jenny skin and then you can come
here and then you can choosing a skin
color. Something I actually recommend
that you do is to just split up your
view port right here and then you can
open the image editor and then you can
actually open up your concept and then
choose you can just pick I drop the
color right from your concept. If you
remember on my concept right here I
don't have any specific colors. So I've
just gone ahead just before recording
this. I've gone ahead I've just made
very simple colors a very simple color
that I can pick for each part of my
character. So, I'm going to be importing
this image. I use this as reference to
create this. So, I'm just going to
import this image into Blender right
here. Let me just minimize this. And I'm
going to open up that image right there.
Okay. So, I'm just going to be picking
the colors from right here. So, for the
skin color right here, I'm just going to
come in here and I'm going to color pick
it from right here. Okay. I'm just going
to come in here and I'll see if I can
pick a better shade of that color.
Something like this. Let me do that
again. Somewhere from here. That's too
dark. I'm going to pick from right here.
Okay. Something like that is going to be
fine. We can always still come back to
adjust this if we need to. Now, for the
eyebrow colors, I'm going to select the
eyebrows. I'm going to create a new
material. I'm going to call this Jenny
brows and also underscore lashes. So,
this is going to this material is going
to be useful both for the brows and the
lashes. And then I'm going to come in
here and I'm just going to pick this
colors right here. And then I'll select
that same material for the eyelashes for
the upper eyelashes and for the lower
eyelashes right there. Okay. Something
that looks like this. Now, for the shirt
color, I'm going to add in a new
material. I'm going to name this Jenny
shirt. And then I'm going to come in
here and I'm going to pick in shirt
color right there. All right. Something
like that. For the skirt color, I'm also
going to add in a new material. I'll
call this Jenny
SK. And then I'm going to come in here.
I'm going to pick up that color from
right there. Okay. Something like that.
Looks good. And then on the boots also
the same thing. I'm going to add in a
new material, Jenny boots. And then I'm
going to select the base color from
right here. I'm also going to use the
same materials right here on this one.
So I just select the boot and then for
this part here, I want this to actually
be a separate color. So I'll go into
edit mode and I can create a new
material here. This one I'm going to
call I'm going to create a new material.
I'm going to call this Jenny
boots
metal. So this is going to be the metal
part of the boots. And then I'm going to
select this part right here. I will also
select this other part right here. Make
sure I select the boot sides and I'm
going to assign them to this Jenny boot
metal material. Okay. And then for the
material, I can turn off the metallic
and also just turn down the roughness
just so that we have an idea of what
that's supposed to be. Okay. I'll go
back in subject mode. And then right
here, I can also add in a new material.
This going to be Jenny
necklace. And I'm just going to bring
the color down somewhere around here.
I'm going to make this metallic and also
reduce the roughness. And I'll just play
around with the color. Okay. So,
something like that looks good for the
color right there. All right. And on the
hair, I'm going to select the hair and
I'm going to create a new material. The
color I want for the hair is this color
right here. And then I'm also going to
just select that same material for all
these other parts. So, let me make sure
that actually names that material. I'll
come in here. I'm going to name this
Jenny
hair. And then I'm going to come in
here. I'm going to select that material
from here. And also the same material.
I'm going to select that from right
here. And then also the same thing from
right here.
Okay. So this is what I have for the
hair. And then for the hair band, I'm
going to create a new material right
there. I'll name the shader hair band.
Just like that. And then I'm just going
to pick the same shirt color right here.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like this. And let's also make sure that
we don't forget the gums, teeth, and the
dong. So I'm going to shade this one
smooth. And right here, since all of
these are in one object, I'm just going
to come in here and I'm going to add in
three new materials. So one for the
tongue, one for the teeth, and then one
for the gums, both the up and lower
gums. So, I'm going to create a new
material here. I'm going to call this
journey
guns. Okay. And I'm going to create
another new material. Okay. I'll make
sure I just click new right here. And
then I'm going to name this Jenny
teeth right there. And this one I'm
going to create a new material right
here. And I'm going to name this Jenny
tongue. Okay. Now, let's go into edit
mode and let's assign these different
objects to these different material. So,
for the tongue right here, I'm just
going to select the tongue and then I'm
going to assign them to the tongue right
there. And then for the gums, I'm going
to select the gums. I'll make sure that
the Jenny gums material selected and
then I'm going to assign that. And then
I'm just going to select the tongue.
Ctrl I just so I can only select just
the teeth. And then I'm going to come
down here to the jelly tits and I'm just
going to assign just the tits right
there. Okay. Now to actually see what's
going on. Let me just come in here and
let me adjust the colors right here. You
can just pick colors for the gums. So
something like this looks good for the
gong. And then let me assign a color for
the tongue right there. So something red
into Yeah, something exactly like that.
It's going to work just fine for the
tongue. We still going to be painting
textures on this one. So we can still
change later on. But for now, it's just
a base color that we have. So right here
on the gums, I'm actually going to make
this a little bit more reflective.
Something like that. So I'll just reduce
the roughness. And then on the teeth
right here, I'm going to definitely drop
down the roughness so that we have
really shiny teeth. And then something
that we can do on the teeth right here
under the coat, we can come in here and
I can actually increase the width of the
coat. So what the coat is going to do is
going to add another clear coat of just
shine on top of the teeth. So this is
without it and then this is with you can
really see the difference right here. So
I'm just going to turn that up to one.
Now we have something that looks like
this. We can also add some subsurface to
the teeth. So I'm going to come down
here. I'm just going to increase the
subsurface.
Something like this. Not too much. Also
the same thing for the teeth for the
gums right here. I'm going to go down to
the subsurface and I'll just increase
that just something like this. Okay. And
we're actually going to be rendering
inside of cycles. So right now I'm going
to switch this to cycles. Okay. And I'll
make sure I'm using my GPU. If you have
a GPU, go ahead and use that. I'm just
going to go into the rendered mode to
see this a little bit properly. I'll
come up here to the viewport shading.
I'm going to turn off scene lights and
also scene world right here just so that
I can use the haz eye that's loaded
inside of Blender already. And let's go
back and let's adjust those material. So
I'm going to adjust the subsurface some
more. Okay, so this is without it. You
can definitely see the difference. And
then this is with it. So I'm just going
to bring it to somewhere around here.
Okay, something like that looks good.
And then also for the tongue, for the
tongue right here, I'm going to increase
the subsurface.
Okay, we should select the tongue. Then
I'll increase the subsurface. Something
around.5 should be just fine for the
tongue right there. Okay. And this is
looking good. Let me unhide character.
Okay. And I'm going to adjust the skin
shader a little bit. I'm just going to
choose a little bit of a nicer color
right there. Okay. Something like this
is going to work. Let me take a look at
this. I'm going to increase the
saturation right there. Let's increase
this a little bit more. Okay, something
like this looks good. And now for the
eyes, let's go ahead and let's add in
some materials for the eyes. For the
eyes, I'm going to add three materials.
So the first one is going to be the
scara. So I'm just going to name this
Jenny_cler
right there. So the scara is the white
part of the eye. That part of the eye
that's completely white. That's the
sclera. Then I'm going to come in here.
I'm going to add in a new material right
there. Okay, this one is going to be the
iris. So I'll call this Jenny
I_is.
So this is going to be the colored part
of the eye. The iris is the color part
of the eye. And then for the last
material right here, I'm going to name
this Jenny_.
Okay, so this is going to be the black
dots on the eye. The black dot inside of
the eye is called the poop. So now let's
just go into edit mode and let's assign
some of this material. So right here,
I'm going to select these pieces right
here. Ctrl plus to select these faces.
And I'm going to go to the Jenny Pio.
I'm going to assign these pieces to the
poopio right there. And I can just
choose a black color right now. Okay. So
we have something that looks like that.
And then for the iris, I'm going to
select these loops
coming out of the poop view till I get
somewhere around here. Yeah, something
like that looks good. I'm going to
select the iris material and I'm going
to assign this right here. And I'm just
going to choose my iris color right
here. I can always come back and change
this if you need to. Something like this
looks good. So that's the iris. And then
the remaining parts, let me just select
that. Should be this clearer. And then
for the clearer, I'll make this
completely white. And then I'm just
going to reduce the roughness about one.
Let me go into objective and see what
that look like. So this is going to be
the clear right here. We're going to add
in one more material for the eye, which
is going to be the cona. But I'm going
to show you how I do that a little bit
later on. For now, we're just selecting
really basic materials. So, this is what
I have right here for the basic colors.
And then on the hair, so on my concept,
let me just show you this. I'm just
going to zoom out right here. I'll show
you my context right here. So, you can
see that there's a little bit of dark
shade coming out from the root of the
hair. And then as you go towards the
tip, it becomes lighter. So to be able
to achieve that on the hair, I'm going
to come in here to the shader editor.
I'm going to change it to the shader
editor. And to be able to achieve that
on the curve, we're going to make use of
curve info node. So I'm going to add a
curve info right there. I'm going to
select this. And now to be able to view
this, I'm going to control shift left
click on this node. If you control shift
left click and you don't see anything
happen, this is because you need to
enable node wrangler. So that's one of
the add-ons I mentioned. So just go up
here to edit preferences and then under
add-ons, just search for the node
wrangler and make sure this is checked.
Okay, so we are going to be using the
intercept option right here. And to see
this a little bit better or to give this
a little bit more contrast, I can come
in here and can add in a color ramp. So
I'm just going to shift A and I'm going
to search for a ramp right here. And I'm
just going to bring this in just like
this. I already start to see what we
have right there. Okay, so we have
something that looks like this. And now
to be able to mix this in with the
original color that we had, I'm going to
add in a color node right here. So I'm
just going to add in a color node. This
node we can use to pick in any color. So
right here, I'm going to copy this color
from here, and I'm going to paste it
right here. Now, to be able to mix these
two together, we're going to add in a
mix color node. So, I'm going to drag
and drop this one right here. I'm going
to plug the color into the B socket and
the color RAM from the CS info into the
E socket. And I'm going to preview this.
I can press control shift left click to
preview this. And we're going to see
what we have right there. If I just play
around with the mix, you can see what we
have right there. To get actually what
we want, I'm going to change the
blending options. So, right here on the
blending options, I'm going to change
this to multiply. And if I just increase
this to the one, you can definitely
start to see what we have right there.
I'm going to plug this into the
principal. I'm going to plug this in
right here. And then you can definitely
start to see what we have. If I just
increase the viewport amount of the
hair, you can see this a little bit
more. I'll take that to.5. And I'll give
this a second to load. Just like this.
Okay. So now you see what we have on the
hair. So that's how you're going to go
ahead and you're just going to achieve
some colors on the hair just like this.
Okay. Now we have actually gone ahead
and we have chosen basic materials for
each of the different parts of our
character. So for some of these objects
you can actually go in and we can
finalize the shaders because these ones
are actually really simple. So on the
hair let's go ahead and let's finalize
the shader. So right now we are using a
principled BSDF node. But since we are
going to be using cycles inside of
cycles there is a pair BSDF node. So I'm
just going to go ahead and I'm going to
add in the principled hair BSDM. So this
one right here. I'm going to plug our
color that we have here into the color
and I'm going to plug this into the
material output and you're definitely
going to see the difference right away.
So I just give this a second to load
right here just so you can see the
difference. So this is what we have with
the principled hair BS. If I just switch
this back to the principled BSDF, you're
definitely going to be able to tell the
difference between the principal BSDF
and the principled hair BSDF. So the
principled hair BSDF just looks really
good. So I'm just going to plug that in.
Okay. And if I go back to the material
preview, this principled hair BSDF
doesn't really work well inside of
Eevee. So to make sure that we can still
preview the hair in Eevee, our final
renders, we're going to be using cycles.
But to make sure that we can still
preview the hair in Eevee, what I'm
going to do right here on the material
output, I'll just set this to only show
up in cycles. So the principal hair BSDF
is only going to show up in cycles. But
if I duplicate this right here, and I
change this on to EV, the principal BSDF
is now going to show up in EV just so
that we can still preview this if you
want to. Okay, I'm going to go back into
the render option and I'm just going to
see what I have in cycles right there
since this is going to be our main
render engine. And I can come in here
and just adjust what this actually looks
like. Okay. And you can definitely start
to see the hair thicken shape. And for
the hair, there's really nothing much I
like to change on the material. This
material is going to be nice. You can
definitely build on top of this, but for
this material, this one is already
looking really nice. So, I'm going to
leave it at this for now. Okay. To make
the view port a lot more responsive, I'm
going to select this the hair, I'm going
to go to the modifiers, the geometry
modifier, and I'll just take the amount
to.1 just so that I can orbit around the
view port a little bit more freely. Now,
let's take a look at the sh for the
eyebrows right here. We are also going
to use the principled hair BSD. So, for
this one, I'm going to set this to V.
And then, I'm going to duplicate this
right here. I'm going to change this to
cycles. And then I'm going to get rid of
the principled BSDF. And then I'm going
to add in the principled hair BSDF right
here. And I'm going to plug that one
right here. I'm going to copy the color
from here. Ctrl C to copy the color. And
then Ctrl + V to paste the color right
here. Just so that we have the exact
color that we want for the eyebrows. And
then I can just come here and adjust
this depending on exactly what I want.
So something like this is definitely
looking good. The next material that
we're going to go ahead and we're going
to finalize is the shader for the eye.
So, let me just isolate just the eyes
right here. And the main part that we're
going to be working on is the iris. So,
let's go ahead and let's make a really
nice shader for the iris. I'm going to
make sure I'm on the iris material right
here. And we're just going to zoom out
and we're going to use some pro shading
to make this look good. The way we're
going to get started, we're going to get
started with a gradient right here. So,
just search for a gradient. And I'm
going to add this right here. And on
this gradient, we need the texture
coordinates and the mapping node. And to
be able to add those in, we can just
press Ctrl T. Once again, make sure the
node wrangler is enabled so that you can
add this in really easy. And we're going
to be making use of our UVs right here.
So, this is going to be our UVs. And let
me just preview this. And you're going
to see what we have. I'm going to add in
a color just so that we can increase the
contrast on this. And let me just bring
this in. And then you can see what that
is doing on the eye. So what I want you
to do is to go around like a ring. So on
this gradient texture, I'm going to
change this one to spherical right here.
And then I'm just going to push this in.
But if you remember, we are using our
UVs. So I'm just going to go in and make
sure that UVs are actually correct for
so that can work properly. So I'm going
to split up my view port right here.
I'll change this to the UV editor. And
right here, I'm going to just close this
material. And you can see that the UV
not in the center. So I'm going to just
come in here for this part of the iris.
I'm just going to unwrap them
separately. So I'm going to select the
iris material here. I'm going to press
select just to select this part. And
then you I'm going to wrap with minimum
stretching. So this exactly what I want.
So for this other part, I'm just going
to select this one and scale it down.
We're not going to making use of this
part. So I'm just going to scale them
down and place them right there. Okay.
So something like this. You're going to
notice that the iris texture is not
still working properly since we want it
to go around. To be able to make it
properly, we need to make sure that our
texture coordinate is actually at the
middle of the UVs. So to be able to do
that, I'm going to change the location
of the X and Y to minus.5
right here. And if I just bring in the
color ramp, okay, you can start to see
what's happening right there. So, we're
going to use this to paint in the iris
to color in the iris. So, I'm just going
to play around with the sliders. Okay.
Something like this. I'm going to add in
a new color stop right here. And on this
one, I'm going to bring this one to the
right side here. And I'm going to change
the color completely to black. Okay. And
I'm just going to push this out. So, I'm
just going to push this out until I
start to see it closer to the poop. So,
I'm just going to push this out.
Something like that. Okay. And what we
want, I just want a nice follow around
the poop.
Okay. So, I have something that looks
like this. Okay. Now, right here, this
is going to be the color of our iris.
So, I'm going to copy this color from
here. And then I'm going to paste it
right here. Ctrl + V to paste that right
there. And you can also change this
interpolation options here. So, you can
change this from blline to C. Now, the
one I like to use is the ease option
right here. So, we can just change this.
We can also add in another color stop
right here. I'm just going to copy this
color. Ctrl C. And I'm going to paste
this color right here. I'll just make a
lighter version of this color. Something
like that. Then I'm going to bring this
one down just a little bit. And then
I'll just adjust the color around until
the color for the eye actually starts to
look good. I'm just going to push this
around until I have something that
actually looks good. So this is going to
be the color for the iris. And I'm
liking the way that is looking right
now. The next thing I'm going to do is
to add in some more variation to the eye
color. So the way we going to do that,
we're going to duplicate the gradient,
the mapping, and the texture
coordinates. I can close the UV now. I'm
just going to duplicate this right here.
And we're going to change the gradient
texture here from spherical to radial.
And let me just preview this. Control
shift, left click. I'm going to preview
this. And we're going to notice we're
going to have a radial texture just like
this. To make this into what we want,
I'm going to go ahead. I'm going to add
in a noise texture right here. I'll make
sure I'm previewing the factor and not
the color. So control shift left click
on the factor and then you can start to
see a little bit of what we have. I'm
going to increase the scale right here
just so that you can see what we have
right there. So this is exactly what I
want us to have. So we're going to mix
this to have some color variation on our
actual color. So the way we're going to
mix that is with a mix shader node once
again. So I'm just going to select these
ones. I'm going to add in a mix color
right here. And then I'm going to plug
this into the B socket. I'm going to
plug this one into the A socket. And
let's just preview this and see what we
have. This is not exactly what we want.
I can you can go around play with the
fac. But the blending mode I'm going to
use here is the soft light. And you can
already start to see what that's doing
on the eye texture. So this is what we
had before. And then with the noise here
combined with the gradient texture, this
is what we have. That looks a lot more
vibrant for the eye. So I like what that
looks. I'm going to just tweak this
around a little bit more until I like
what I have right here. This is looking
good for the iris texture. And now one
final thing that I'm to do to make this
eye shader look good. I'm going to
duplicate this shift to duplicate this.
I can delete the color ramp right here.
And I'm going to change the gradient
texture from spherical to linear right
there. I'm going to add another color
ramp. Just a new color. And let's
preview this right here. So, what I want
to do, I want to make the top half of
the eye a lot darker than the bottom
half. So, now you're going to notice
that the UVs are not aligned properly.
So, I'm just going to go into the UV
editor. I'll go to the UV editor here.
I'll go into edit mode and I'll just
select those parts of the iris right
here. And what I can do, I'm just going
to rotate this just so that the top half
is the darker portion. Then the thumb
half is the whiter portion. So, I'm just
going to paste it right here to have
something that looks like this. And then
to adjust the gradient, we can come in
here and we can play around with this to
the way we want it to be. We can also
come in here and change the
interpolation right here. So, you can
change this from BPLine to linear. The
one I like to use here is the ease
interpolation once again. So, this top
half is going to be a lot darker than
the bottom. Let me just bring this this
way. I have something that looks like
this. Now, we are going to go ahead and
we're going to mix this mask with our
color right here. So, we're going to use
another mix color for that. I'm going to
add in a mix color right here. I'm going
to plug this one into the A socket and
plug this one into B socket. And let's
see what we have right there. So, this
is not looking like exactly what we
want. So, we can go in and we can play
around with the blending mode. And the
one that I found works well for this is
the multiply blend mode. So, I'm just
going to change it to multiply. And then
I'm going to bring the color. And then
I'm going to bring the factor all the
way to one right there. And now we have
something that looks like this. And you
can just still play around with this and
adjust this a lot more. If you don't
want the top part to be completely dark,
you can come here to the color. And then
you can just adjust those colors right
there. Okay. Something that looks like
that is completely fine for me. Okay. So
now we've been able to add some more
color variation to the iris. And now I'm
going to plug this into the principal BS
here. And then let's preview what this
looks like. So on the iris, I don't want
any roughness on this. I want this to be
completely rough. So I'm just going to
take this to one. And the specularity,
I'm going to take that one completely
down to zero just so that we don't
really have light interacting with this.
Okay. So we have something that look
exactly like this. Nice. Now I'm going
to plug that here into the material out.
And then what I want to do on the poop.
I'm just going to switch to the material
right here. Also for the poop, I don't
want light to be reflecting or
interacting with the poop. So I'm just
going to delete this. And we could
actually leave this material just as the
material output right here. So that we
don't have anything showing up on P. Or
we can use the emission shader right
here and just set this to black. So that
we don't have any colors and no light
reflecting with the. So that's exactly
how I want the eye to be. Okay. And then
for the scar, for the scar, I'm just
going to take the roughness down.
Something like this. Okay. Now, the last
thing that we need to make this eyeball
shader look really good is the cona. And
for the cona, I'm going to be using a
separate object for that. Okay. To add
that separate object, I want to make
sure that that object is in the middle
of this eyeball. And right here, this is
the middle of the eyeball. So, I'm just
going to take my 3D cursor to the middle
of right here. Shift S. And I'm going to
take this cursor to selected right here.
I'm going to go back into object mode.
Shift a mesh. I'm going to add in a UV
sphere. Okay, that is going to
completely envelope the eyeball. I'm
just going to scale this down right here
until I get to the size of the eyeball.
Something like this. I'm going to shade
this smooth. And let's just also go
ahead and just rename this. So, I'm
going to put this in the rice collection
right there. I'm going to rename this to
go jenny
i cona. So this is going to be the cona
right there. I'll make sure to also just
copy the name from here and place that
into the object data right there. Okay,
now we have something that looks like
this. I'm going to parent the eyeball to
the corner. The way we can do that is
just select the eyeball from the
collection right here and hold down
shift and then just hover over the
corner object right there and it's going
to parent that. So now if I just select
the cona it's going to also move the
eyeball. And now for the cona material
is really simple. We are going to add a
new material here. I'm going to name
this to jenny i cona. And for the corner
material what we're going to do here I'm
going to take the roughness completely
down to zero. And then the transmission
I'm going to take this one all the way
to up so that we have that reflective
layer above the eye. And I really like
what that is looking like right there.
But you're going to notice that the
corner object is casting shadow on the
eyeball object and we don't want that.
Especially in cycles that's going to be
really prominent. So I'm going to go
down here to the object properties. I'm
going to scroll down here to the
visibility options. And then I'm going
to turn off shadows for this corner
object. So this corner object is not
going to cast shadows at all when we
render. So I'm just going to turn off
shadows. And now we have something that
looks like this. So the cona is right
there is still having reflections on the
eye and everything is starting to look
good for the eye. If I go back into the
material preview mode, you're going to
notice that we can't really preview that
corner object. So what I'm going to do,
I'm going to go to my properties. I'll
change this back to Eevee. And there are
some settings that we need to change and
we need to turn off. So right here, I'm
going to make sure to turn on R3C right
there. And then we're going to go back
to the material properties. I'm just
going to scroll down here to the
settings. We want to make sure that R3
transmission is also turned on. And then
the last thing that we want to do is to
come here to the thickness and we're
just going to add in a value of zero
right there just to make that glass
material not too thick. So if I just
increase, you're going to see that
thickness is increasing which is making
it refract in weird ways. So I'm just
going to add in a value of zero right
there for the cona. Okay. So this is
exactly what I have for the cona. And
this is looking good right. I like what
that like. And for the eyes, the last
thing I'm going to do, I'm just going to
make sure that I like the shape of the
eye. So, I'm going to scale this up and
make sure it's fitting properly in the
eye. Going to move this back if I need
to. Okay, I'm going to get rid of the
mirror modifier on this one. So, I'm
going to have an eyeball for the left
side and also for the right side. So, on
this corner object, I'm going to come in
here and I'm going to rename this to
underscore L, which stands for the left
side. I also do that for the object that
I name right there. And then I also do
this for this one right here. L
and then underscore L for the eyeball
right there. And now I'm going to select
all of these. I'll make sure I apply
transform. So right now the transforms
are still not applied. I'm going to Ctrl
A. I'm going to apply all transforms. So
just come up here and choose all
transforms. And then you're going to
mirror this over to the other side. I'll
make sure my 3D cursor is in the world
origin. I'm going to make my pivot point
the 3D cursor. And then I'm going to
duplicate this and then Ctrl M and then
X to mirror it over to the other side.
And then let's also make sure that we
apply all our transforms. And then into
edit mode and then just shift N to
recalate the normals right there. So
right here we want to just change up the
names right here. So I'm going to select
these two. Ctrl F to batch rename and
I'm going to find and replace right
here. I'm going to replace the_l1.
So let me just type that in here._l1.
I'm going to replace that with
r right there. Okay. And now that
renames that for us. I'm just going to
copy this one from here and rename it
right there. Also the same thing right
here. Going to select copy the name from
here and rename it right there. Okay,
now this is looking good for the eye.
So, we have the left eye and we also
have the right eye. And the material is
looking good for the eye. If I just go
into render properties, I'll change this
back to cycle. And now you can see what
we have for the eyes. The eyes is
looking really, really nice. Now, the
next thing that we're going to do since
we have gone ahead, we have added in
basic materials. For some of these
materials, we have really finalized
them. So now for some of these parts
like the skin probably for the shirts
and for the skirts and for the shoes you
might need to go in and paint textures.
So depending on your concept. So like
right here on my own concept I'll need
to paint in this design on the shirt. I
also need to paint in the skin. I'm
going to need to paint in some parts on
the boots. So I'm just using this as my
reference. This is going to be my main
reference when texturing. So, we are
going to get into the next stage now,
which is going to be to create textures.
The main way we are going to be doing
this is with texture painting. So, for
most part of this texturing process, I'm
going to time-lapse the process cuz this
is where you just go in and enjoy the
process of creating new textures for
your own character. So, I'm going to
time-lapse the process. But before I do
that, I'm just going to show you how the
texture painting workspace works inside
of Blender. So, for the texture painting
workspace, let's say that we wanted to
start texturing the skin right here. We
are going to add in a new image. I'll
just change this to the image editor
right here. I'm going to add in a new
image for the skin. So, shift A. I'm
going to add in a new image. I'll change
this to image texture. Select the image
texture right there. And then we're
going to create a new image texture. And
I'm going to name this Jenny skin
color map right there. And I'm going to
use a 4K texture. I'm going to times
this by four. And I can copy this one
and paste it right there. And then for
the color, we want to choose our skin
color. So I'm just going to Ctrl C to
copy this. And we're going to need to
redo all of that again. So I'll just
paste this right here. I'll rename this
really quickly. And then I'm going to
change this to 4K texture right there.
Ctrl C and paste it right there. And
we're going to create a new image right
there. So this is going to be our column
map. And you're going to notice that it
shows up right here. When you create new
images like this, just go ahead and save
your file into a textures folder. So
just something like this. I'm going to
go ahead and I'm going to save this
right here. And then we can plug this
into the base color of the principal
PSDF to able to see the color in the
view port in the solid view. I'm going
to come up here to view port shading and
then I'm going to change this to texture
right here just so that we can actually
see the texture in the solid view. So
now if you wanted to go ahead and wanted
to start texturing this, I'm going to
select this object. We're going to go
into the texture painting workspace to
make sure that we are painting on the
right image. So right now it's still
showing for the right side hair that I
painted for the hair. I don't want that.
So I'm going to come up here. I'm going
to change this back to material since we
working with the material. And I'm going
to choose the Jenny skin color map. You
might have other color maps here when
you adding more. But for now, we just
have the Jenny skin color map. And I'm
going to select that one right there.
And we can come in here and we can start
painting on this. You can turn off
exemetry or turn it on depending on your
character design. Or you can go in here
can start painting right here. So you
can either paint in the 3D view port
right here or you can come in here
change the image editor mode to paint
and you can actually you able you'll be
able to paint from the UV editor. So
just depending on what's more
comfortable for you, you can paint from
the UV editor and also from the 3D view.
I like to use a combination of both. So,
I'll paint on the 3D report and then I'm
going to clean up anything that I need
to on the image editor right here. I'm
going to show you some other things that
you can do with the texture painting.
So, right here, I'm going to go to the
tools and we are going to have this
color palette right here. So, for the
color palettes, I can come in here and I
can add in a new palette and I'm going
to name this skin. So, right here, I can
come in here and I can color pick this
color and we're going to add that to our
skin color palette. Make sure that this
button right here is checked. This fake
user button right here is checked. So
that even though we close Blender and
open up Blender again, this our color
palette is going to be saved. So right
here, I can come in here and I can
select a highlight color for the skin.
Something like this. And I can just add
this to the color palette. I can also
select a darker shade for the darker
parts of the skin. And I can add that
into the color palette. I can also come
in here and add in a reddish color for
the cheeks. So somewhere around here, I
can just come in here and add in all the
colors that I'm going to need for
texturing this character. I'm going to
add in a lot more colors here. So you
can do that for the skin. You can also
create new ones. And then you can do
that for the clothes. If you have
specific colors for the clothes, you can
go in here and you can add in new colors
for the clothes. So I'm just going to
stick to the skin for now. Another thing
that you can do in the texture workspace
in case you just wanted to fill in your
whole character with a single color, you
can come here to the bucket field tool
and you can just fill in your whole
character. So just click that and it's
going to work just like that. I'm just
going to undo that. That's not exactly
what I want to do, but you can use the
fill option if you need to. Okay.
Something else that you can also do, if
I just go into edit mode on this
character and I select this part of the
character, I just go back into texture
painting mode. I'll make sure that I
didn't fill this with the wrong color.
So, I'm just going to fill this back in
with the correct color just so that
everything is in place. Okay. Now, if I
go into edit mode and I select certain
parts of this character. So, I'm just
going to come here. I'm just going to
select the face right here. And I'll go
back into the texture painting
workspace. And on the texture painting
workspace, we have this option, the
paint mask face selection option. So if
I select that option, we are only going
to be able to paint just on the face.
We're not going to be able to paint on
the other part of the character because
we don't have those part selected in
edit mode. So just parts that you
selected in edit mode are going to be
active when you come to texture
painting. So this is going to be really
useful for some parts of your character.
And then something I also want to show
you inside of Blender. So if you might
have noticed that if you use a big brush
size, the texture painting is going to
get slow inside of Blender. So I'm just
going to a big brush size and notice how
you're going to notice how that's
getting really slow. So texture painting
in Blender is not the best that it could
be. It could be much better, but since
it's not here better, we are going to
manage Bender as it is. So just make
sure not to use really big brush sizes.
And then also the blow brush right here.
If I just come here and I paint in a
white color right here and I switch to
the blur brush, you can just blur out
the colors right here. This doesn't work
the best. This brush doesn't work really
nicely. So the way I like to blur colors
is actually just switch to the
paintbrush. And I'll just use a lower
strength of the brush. I'm just going to
paint over the edges right here. just
paint over the edges. And then you can
also just hold down shift and you switch
to the blur brush and then just blow out
all this area. So that's something that
you can do instead of using the blow
brush. I'm going to just paint over
this. And now that you know all this,
I'm actually going to go ahead and get
started with the texture painting of
this character. So all of this is going
to be time-lapse because it's going to
take a little bit of time. So, I'm going
to go ahead and I'm going to start
texturing every part of the character,
like the skin, the clothes,  the
skates, anywhere that needs textures.
I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going
to add in those textures right now.
Ooh.
Oh.
>> 
>> Oh, 
>> 
>> Oh.
Oh. 
Oh.
Oh. Oh.
Oh.
Oh. 
Heat. 
Heat. 
Oh. 
Oh.
Ooh.
Ooh.
>> 
>> Ooh.
Oh.
Oh.
Heat. Heat.
Oh,
heat.
>> 
>> Oh.
Oh,
Oh
yeah.
Oh.
>> 
>> Oh,
>> 
>> Oh.
Ooh.
Oh. 
Oh,
hey.
>> 
>> Heat. Heat.
>> 
>> Oh.
Ooh.
Ooh.
>> 
>> Oh.
Ooh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Heat.
Heat. 
Oh, 
you are.
>> 
>> Oh,
Oh,
Oo.
Oh
yeah.
Oh,
Oh, 
God.
>> 
>> Oh,
hey.
Oh.
Ooh.
>> 
>> Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
>> 
>> Oh.
Ah. Oh.
Oh.
Ooh.
Ooh.
>> 
>> Ooh.
Oh. 
Oh.
>> 
>> Heat. Heat. 
Oh.
Oh. 
Oh.
>> 
>> Oo.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh. Oh, 
Oh,
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh. Oh. 
Oh. Oh,
hey.
Oo.
[singing]
Oh.
 Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh. Oh,
hey.
Oh.
 Oh. Oh,
>> 
>> Oo. 
Oh.
Oh. 
>> 
>> Oh,
hey.
>> 
>> Oh, 
you
Oh,
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
M.
Ooh.
[singing] Heat.
Heat. 
Oh,
heat.
>> 
>> Oh,
Oh,
>> 
>> Oo. [singing]
Oh
yeah.
Oh,
Oh,
[singing]
God.
>> 
>> Oh.
Oh.
Oh. Oh.
Ooh.
Oh.
Heat.
Heat. 
>> 
>> Oh.
Ooh.
Ooh.
Oh.
Oh. Oh. [singing]
Heat. Heat.
Oh,
heat.
>> 
>> Ooh.
Oh,
Oo.
Oh.
Oh.
>> [singing]
>> Oh.
>> 
>> Oh.
>> 
>> Ooh.
Oh, 
>> 
>> Ooh.
Oh. 
Oh.
Oh,
>> 
>> Oh,
you
Oh,
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Moo.
>> 
>> Heat. Heat. 
Oh.
Oh. Oh.
Oh.
Oh. Oh,
Oo.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh.
Oh. Oh.
Oh.
Oh. Oh,
Oo.
Oh. 
Oh.
Oh,
Oh.
 Oh. Oh.
Oh. Oh,
hey.
Oh
yeah.
Oh.
Oh,
Oh,
huh.
>> 
>> Oh.
Oh.
Oh. Oh,
I was going
Oo.
Oh.
 Oh.
Oh.
Okay. And at this point, I'm happy with
what I have for the texture painting.
It's definitely not done, but I'm happy
with it. And we can keep on moving
forward. So, we have created some of the
color maps. I created color maps for the
skin, for the shirts, for the skirt, and
also for the trousers. So, we are still
in step two, which is creating the
textures. So, we're going to create some
more textures right now. So, we're going
to be baking some things. Let me just
bring this down. We're going to be
baking some maps, like the pointiness
map. I'll show you what that is. And
we're also going to be baking the normal
map on the shirts, on the skirt, and
also on the trousers just so that we can
get rid of the multi.
So, let me actually explain what a
normal map is cuz I feel like I glossed
over it at this point. A normal map is a
texture image that we use in 3D modeling
to bake high resolution details or to
add high resolution surface details to a
low polygon model without increasing his
actual geometry. So right now on this
shirt it has the multi-res modifier and
that actually increases the number of
polygons that we have. So if you don't
want to keep the multi-res modifier we
can bake down those high resolution
details onto a normal map. Okay. So
that's how a normal map works. So if
your character is going to be used
completely inside of Blender, you don't
need to bake normal map. You can leave
the mort as it is. But I'm just going to
show you how I like to bake down the
mort if I need to. So right here I'm
going to start with the shirt and we are
going to bake some maps. The first map
is going to be the pointiness map. I'm
going to add in a geometry node. Now
this is a geometry node inside of the sh
editor. This is not a geometry node from
the modifiers. So I'm just going to add
in this geometry node right here. And
I'm going to preview this. And I want to
preview the pointiness setup here. So
I'm going to just keep on previewing.
I'm just going to keep on control shift
left clicking till I get to the
pointiness socket right there. Okay,
this one looks good. And make sure
you're in cycles. You're not going to
see what's going to happen if you're in
Eevee. This geometry node only works in
cycles. So, make sure you're in cycles.
I just go to rendered mode here. And
then I'm going to add in another color
ramp.
So, this color ramp to be able to see
the effect of this pointiness. We going
to need to crunch the color ramp in this
way. So somewhere around 045
should be fine. Also going to bring in
the white values this way. This is going
to be somewhere around here. Okay. And
something like this for the point map
should look good. So what the point map
is going to help us do. So these parts
that are dark, you can see that we have
some lighter parts and some darker
parts. this dark this parts that are
dark, we can multiply that with our
color map and just tell those parts to
become much darker and these parts that
are to become much lighter. So that's
what we are going to be doing with this
point map. So let me just make sure I
like the way this is looking.
Okay,
somewhere around here should be fine for
this. And I like what this is looking
like right now. So we can go ahead and
we can just big down this point map. To
begin it down, I'm going to add in a new
image texture. And at this point, I can
close this panel right here. I'm going
to add in a image texture right here.
I'm going to make a new one. And I'm
going to call this Jenny
SH
pointiness map right there. And I'm
going to make this a 4K texture 2* 4.
And also the same thing here, time 4.
For the color, we can leave this one as
black. And I'm just going to create a
new image right there. On this one,
since this is a non color, so this map
right here, the pointiness doesn't have
any color involved. So we want to make
sure that right here where it says color
space, we want to change this to non
color cuz this does not have any color
information. So you want to make sure
that we set the image texture to non
color. Now to be able to beat this down,
what we are going to do, make sure that
the shirt is selected in the view port.
Make sure that this map right here, the
new point map that we just added in is
selected. And then we are going to go to
the render properties up here. And then
we are going to scroll down to bake. And
we are going to be baking the emission
right here. So what the emission is
going to be is anything that's plugged
into the surface. So right now what we
have what we are viewing is the
pointiness. If we viewing the column
map, it's going to bake out this color
map. So we want to view the pointiness
that's the emission. What is emitting
right now from the material output is
this pointiness setup that we have just
created. So now you want to make sure to
select the pointiness map the image
texture right here. Make sure you select
the shirt. If you don't select the
shirt, it's going to give you an error.
So make sure you select the shirt on the
view. Select the image texture. And now
we can go ahead and bake this. So I'm
just going to hold on bake and then I'm
going to leave this to bake out for a
moment. Okay. Okay, so that took about
10 seconds to do. I'm just going to
split my viewboard here so I can go back
to the image editor. I'll come down here
to the image editor and I should see
what we have right there. Let's go ahead
and let's save this. Alt S. I'm going to
save this and I'll just save this in my
textures folder right there. And now
let's preview this. So this is what we
have. So you can definitely see this is
what we had with the geometry node
setup. And this is what we have with the
baked color. So you can see how
everything is just nicely baked. So we
don't need this anymore. We can get rid
of this one. All right. Something else
now that we're going to do is to go
ahead and bake in the normal maps. So
right here, we have been using the
multi. And let me just go back into the
solid mode. And I'm just going to select
this one right here. So we have been
using the multi-res. If I just remove
the multi, you can see that we don't
have those details that we had with the
multi on our shirt right here. So what
we going to do with the normal map is to
tell the light how to react to the CL
just so that it will be as if we had the
multi. Okay. And you're going to see
that in action a little bit. So to bake
out the multi, I'm going to come down
here and I'm just going to disable the
multi in the viewport. Then I'm going to
come down here to shape. And what we
want to do is to conform the base. I'm
just going to click on confirm base. And
that's going to change the shape of the
clothes a little bit more. That's fine
for now. I'm not bother about that. And
then we will go to the render properties
right here. And I'll just scroll down.
And this one we want to pick out the
normal. Okay. So, let's also make sure
to create a new image right here. I'm
going to shift D to duplicate this one.
And right here, I can create a new image
texture right there. I'm going to call
this one jenny shets_normal
map. Okay. And I'll just leave that as a
black color. This one also you want to
make sure to set it to non color. Okay.
This shouldn't have any color
information. So now make sure that the
shirts column map here is selected or
the shed normal map here selected. Make
sure the se the shirt is selected in the
view port. And then yeah make sure this
is set to normal. And then we can go
ahead and bake this one more thing under
the modifiers. Make sure that this is
disabled in the viewport. So I'm going
to come here to the render properties.
And I'm going to come down here and I'm
just going to bake. And I'll leave that
to bake for a few seconds. Okay. Now we
have something that looks like this.
Let's go ahead and let's also save this
one. I'll save it in my textures folder.
And now to see the effect of the normal
up, I'll go back into material preview
mode. And I'm just going to preview just
the principal BSDF with the column map
plugged in. And now you can see we don't
have any details. To bring back the
details that we had with the multi, I
can come in here and I can add in a
normal map. So a normal map. This one
right here. And I'm just going to place
this one right here. And now the journey
sheds normal map. Let's plug the color
into the color. And then this normal map
into the normal impute of the principal
BSDF. And now you can see what that
gives us. So let me just unplug that. We
don't have any details. But when we plug
back the normal into normal, you can see
that bring back that brings back all the
detail that we had with the mult. So at
this point, we can get rid of the motor.
Don't really need. So I'm just going to
X to get rid of the motor. And at this
point, I can add in a subdivision
surface modifier on the clothes instead
of a mult. So this is just if you want
to export your character into another
software. You might not need to bake
down the multi. But in this case, I'm
just going to show you how to do. So
right here, I can see that there's a
little bit of clipping. So I'm just
going to sculpt mode. I use the grab
brush. And I'm just going to pull this
one out. So make sure X3 is turned on.
And then I'm just going to pull out
these areas right here. And the normal
one should still be working correctly.
Okay. Now we have this right here. Let's
do some other shading setup right here.
So remember when I said with the
pointiness map, we are going to use this
to darken the color map a little bit or
we're going to use it to affect the
color map a little bit. So let's go
ahead and let's do that. I'm going to
add in a mix color node right here. I'll
plug the color map into the A socket and
I'll plug the pointiness into the B
socket. And let's preview this and I'll
just play around with some of the
blending factors. So the one that's
going to work well for this is the multi
is the multiply not multi and let's you
can increase this more or you can bring
it down if you don't want it to affect
it too much. So in this case I'm just
going to bring it to about somewhere
around.3 should be fine. So this is
without and then we start to add it in
gradually to something like this. So you
can see those lighter parts is making it
lighter and this other darker parts is
making it darker just like that. So that
looks good. You can plug this into the
base color right here. And I can just
preview this and see what that looks
like. Okay, this looks good. Let's add
in some texture to this code. So right
now everything is smooth. It doesn't
even look like flute. So to do this is
where the Polyhaven add-on is going to
come in. I'm going to change to the
asset browser right here. And I'll just
go to the Poly Haven collection. And
then I'm going to select the texture
collection right here. And then I'm
going to search for fabric just to bring
up all their fabric textures right here.
And now at this point, you can just
scroll and find which one is going to
work for you. The one I like to use for
clothes like this. I'm just going to add
in another mesh right here. So this can
be a cube. I'm going to add in a sphere.
So we going to use this sphere to test
out this materials. I'm just going to
right click, shade this one smooth. I'll
scale it down and I'll just bring it to
somewhere around here. So now you can
just drag and drop on the sphere. See
what the material looks like before
dropping it on the main shirt. So I'm
just going to drag and drop it right
here and see what this materials look
like. So you can just preview the
material on this F. So the one I like to
use for clothing like this is just the
this material right here. Telea
Telena Telen I believe that's how that's
called. Okay. And with the Polyhaven
add-on, if I select the sphere right
here, I can go down to the material
outfit or the material properties right
here. And if I bring this down, you're
going to notice that I have the option
to use a 1K map, a 2K map, a 4K map, or
an 8K map. In this case, the 2K map is
going to be just fine. And I like what
this is looking like. So, this is the
node setup that he it created. So, what
I'm going to do in this case, I'm going
to select all of these, Ctrl C.
And I'm just going to paste it right
into this shader right here. So, Ctrl +
V to paste it into the shader right
here. So, instead of dragging this one
on top of the shirt. So, you're going to
not that's going to get rid of what we
had. We don't exactly want that. So,
instead of doing that, I'm just going to
copy and paste it this way. And now,
what we going to do here, we remember we
still have our color map plugged into
the base color. I'll just bring this one
up here. We are going to mix it with the
color map of the PBR texture that we
added in. And then we still have the
normal map right here. So we are going
to be mixing this one in with this
normal map that we have right here.
Okay. So let's start off with the base
color. Base color on this one. We are
going to mix it in the same way that we
did for right here. I'm going to
duplicate this and I'll just change it
back to mix for now. I'll change the
factor back to.5. I'm going to plug the
base color into the B socket. And then
I'm going to plug this multiply into the
A socket. And I'm going to preview this.
See what this looks like. Okay. And now
you can see that the base color from the
PBR texture, this PBR texture that we
added in right here is mixing in with
the color that we painted in also with
the pointiness that we added in. And now
the blending mode I like to use for this
one is the overlay blending mode. And we
can reduce depending on how much you
want this base color to come through.
You can either increase or reduce it. So
in my case, I'm actually going to reduce
this. So you still see the detail from
that PBR texture. I'm just going to
reduce it to somewhere around.3. So this
is what we had before. This what we have
now. You can definitely see the
difference right there. And now we can
plug this into the base color right
here. Let me just maximize this view
port here. I'm going to plug this
overlay into the base color right here.
Okay. And then we can preview this
principal BSF instead of this one. I'm
going to preview this one and let's see
what that looks like. Okay. You can
definitely start to see that this looks
a lot more like fabric. Okay. Something
that we can also do here is just to come
in here and play around with the scale
depending on what exactly you want. I'm
going to increase the scale in this
case. Okay. Something like this. Yeah.
I'm definitely liking what that's
looking like right now. Yep, I like what
that's looking like right now. And now
let's mix in the normal map. So, we have
two normal maps here. So, how do you go
about mixing this in? I'm just going to
bring this one in here. And I'm going to
select all these other ones. Just drag
them down. And then this normal map, I'm
going to place it right in between here.
I'm also just going to select this one
and just move them up just to arrange
that a little bit nicely. So now to mix
in two normal maps, the way we are going
to do this, we're actually going to add
in a vector mat. This one right here.
And we are going to by default going to
be on the add. I'm going to drag this
into the vector and also this one into
the second vector. And if you preview
this, this is what we have right now. So
this is what we had with this normal
one. And this is what we had with the
normal one that we baked in. Okay. And
now that we are adding it together, you
can see what we have. The both of them
are mixing together. But you also notice
that something happen. The color,
there's a bit of a color change. So this
part becomes really light when we add
these in together. So we need to
normalize this. So we're going to add in
a normalize. So I'm just going to search
for that again. A normalize vector m
normalize. Yeah, that one right there.
And let's place that right there. And
you're going to see that just evens
everything out. And now I'm going to
plug this into the normal map. And now
let's preview what this one looks like.
Okay. Now you can see see that we have
our details in there and everything is
still looking nice on the sheds right
there. Okay, I'm liking how that's
looking. For this one, we can get rid of
the principled of this principal BSDF
right here. We don't need that one
anymore. And I'm going to bring this
right here. Okay, so this is the node
setup that we have. I know it looks
scary, but you saw how we just put this
up together piece by piece so you
understand how it works. Okay, so that's
going to be it for the shirt. I like
what is looking I like what the shirt is
looking like right now. Okay, I'll
definitely still go and adjust the
textures a little bit more, but that's
going to be fine for the shirt. We are
going to do the exact same thing that we
did for the shirt for this. So, I'm
going to just come in here. I'm going to
go to the asset browser right here. I'm
going to go to the poly haven. I'm going
to go to the textures and I'll just find
a texture I like. I'll bring this sphere
somewhere down here. And for this kit, I
can search for a leather material. So,
any of these leather materials are going
to work. I'm going to use this brown
leather right here. Okay. And something
like this is definitely going to work.
Just before I start adding in the PBR
setup right here, I'm going to select
this one. And let's bake some of the
maps that we baked in for the shirt. So,
we going to bake in the pointiness map.
So, let's do that right now. I'm going
to go into the rendered mode, which is
cycles. And then I'm going to add in a
geometry setup right here. So geometry.
And then I'm going to preview this. I'm
going to preview the pointiness on this
one. And then I'm going to add in a
color ramp right there. And on this
color I'm going to bring the black
slider to about 045.
Then I'm also going to bring this one in
five. There about should be fine.
So I'm just going to adjust this and see
what that's looking like. Okay. Nice. I
like what that's looking like right now.
Okay, not too bad. And let's go ahead.
I'm going to duplicate this one. Shift B
to duplicate this. And I'm going to
create a new image texture right there.
This is going to be Jenny_K
pointiness
map. Okay. And then I'm going to create
a new image. We want to make sure to set
this to non color. Okay. And now we are
going to bake this. So make sure the map
here is selected. Make sure that this is
selected in the viewport. Make sure the
SC is selected in the view port. I'll
make sure that's plugged that the color
is plugged into the material output.
Then I'm going to come down here to
cycles. I'm going to change this from
normal to emission. And make sure this
selected. Let's go ahead and let's bake
this and let's see what this gives us.
So bake, leave it for a few minutes to
bake out. Okay. And that's done. I'm
going to go back to image textures and
let me see what that point map looks
like on this one. And I can see that
there's a little bit of an error on this
one. So I'm just going to reick the
pointiness map on this one. Let me
preview what that looks like. So this is
definitely not what we want. So just
picked this side. So I'm just going to
go ahead and I'm going to reake this and
make sure that I have no overlapping is
in edit mode. Just make sure everything
is looking good. right here. Okay,
that's looking good. I'm just going to
go ahead and I'm going to bake this
again and try to figure out what the
problem on this one is. Okay, and for
some reason the first error was just
just filled for no reason. So, I just
baked it again and that baked properly.
So, yeah, that might happen to you. Just
go ahead and bake again. That's
completely normal inside Blender. Okay,
I'm going to alt S and then I'm just
going to also save this pointlessness
map. And now let me go ahead and bake
the normal on this one. So to be the
normal, the same process that we use for
the shirt. I'm going to come down here.
I'm going to turn off the materials in
real time that's in the view port right
there. And I'm going to come down here
to shape and I'm going to select
confform.
Okay. Now we have something that looks
like this. I'm going to create a new
image right there. I'm going to create a
new image. Then I'm going to name this
appropriately jenny
sket_normal
map. And I'm going to create a new image
texture. I'll make sure that this is set
to non color. Then I'll go back to the
render properties big type. I'm going to
change this on to normal. I'll make sure
this is selected and also that the
normal map is selected right here. And I
make sure this is turned off. And then
I'm just go ahead and bake this one.
Okay. And this is what the normal map
looks like. I'm going to go ahead Alt S.
And I'm going to save this image right
there. And I can get rid of the
Montress. I don't need that one anymore.
I can add in a subdivision surface
modifier there instead. Okay. I'll go
into my serial preview mode. And I'm
just going to preview the base color.
Now, let me plug in the normal map. I
can get rid of this setup right here. X
to get rid of that one. And I'm just
going to move this up. And let me plug
in the normal map. So I'm going to
search for a normal map right here.
Normal map. Make sure this is plugged
into the color right there. And I'll
plug the normal into the normal of the
principal BSDF. And you can see what we
have. So this is without it. And this is
with it. Definitely add some more
definition. Okay, that looks good. I'm
going to So, if you watch the time
lapse, I model in these little straps
for the sket. So, I'm just going to make
sure that also for the pointiness map
that these were baked. So, I can see
that those were not picked when I added
in the pointiness map. So, what I'm
going to do, I'm just going to Ctrl Z a
little bit till I have Okay, till I have
this. Then, I'm going to preview this.
I'm going to select these these straps
right here. I want to make sure that the
point al is also bit on these straps for
the skirt right here. So what I'm going
to do, I'm going to preview this
and make sure this one is selected. And
now that we have already baked an
initial point map, when we come back
here to the render properties and under
the if you change the big type from
normal to emission, we want to uncheck
clear image. So when we uncheck that,
it's not going to erase the whole image.
But if that is checked, that's going to
erase the whole image. So I'm going to
select the straps right here. Make sure
that the pointiness map also is selected
cuz we still want to bake this onto the
pointiness map. And then I can go ahead
and I can also bake this one. Okay. And
the pointiness has been properly baked
for those objects. That's nice. I'm just
going to go ahead and press Alt S to
save this file. Now we can get rid of
this one. X to delete that. I'm just
going to bring this here. I'm going to
preview the principled PSDF. And I'm
going to add back in the normal map. So
I'm just going to search for a normal
map right there. Make sure this plugged
into the color. And let's plug this one
right there. Okay. And now we see what
we have. I'm just going to go in and
adjust this a little bit. So I'm just
going to select this one right here.
Make sure to select the other side, too.
And then I'm just going to push this a
little bit. Okay. So little things like
this. You just want to go ahead and fix
those little things. For now, I'm not
going to fix them. I'm going to do that
after recording this. Okay. But this is
looking good for the skirt so far. Now,
let's go ahead. Let's mix the ski color
with the pointness map. So, we're going
to do this the exact same way that we
did for the shirt right here with a
multiplier node this way. So, I'm going
to add in a mix color.
Going to plug this into the A socket.
Plug this one into the B socket. And
right here on the blending mode, I'm
going to choose multiply right there.
And if I just increase, let me just
preview this. If I increase reduce this,
you can this. So, this is without it.
And then if you start to get that in
there, you can definitely see what we
have. So, because the color map here is
really dark that we really see much
changes, but something is definitely
happening. So, I'm going to plug that
into the base color right there. And
let's preview what that looks like.
Okay, that's looking good for the skirt.
I'm going to come down here to the
shoes. And then I'm also going to bake
the pointiness and also the normal map
on the shoe. So I'm going to select the
shoe right there and I'm going to bake
the pointiness map. So search for
geometry pointiness. Let's search for
geometry. This one right here. And I'm
going to preview the pointiness setup
right there. And I'm going to add in a
color ramp. And let's push the black in.
Then also push the whites in.
Okay, that looks good for boots right
there. And I'm going to duplicate this
image right here. I'm going to create a
new image. This is going to be called
jenny
shoe_iness_map.
Okay, we're going to create a new image.
Make sure that this is set to non color.
We don't want this to have any color
information. And I'll make sure that
that's selected. Make sure that the shoe
is selected from here too. I'm just
going to solid mode for this. And then
I'm going to come down here. Yeah. Make
sure this one is set to emission. And
then I'm going to go ahead and I'm going
to bake this. Okay. So this is what it
looks like on the shoe. I'm also going
to go ahead and bake it on the straps
too. So I'm going to copy this image
from here. Ctrl C. I'm going to paste it
right here. Okay. And then I'm going to
make sure that the strap here is
selected. The pointiness map here is
selected. And then make sure image is
unchecked. And then I'm going to go
ahead and I'm also going to pick this
one. Okay. Now we have something that
looks like this for the pointiness of
the shoe. Alt S. I'm going to save this
in my textures folder. All right. Now
something that looks like this is good.
I'm going to go back into the material
preview mode and I'm going to select the
shoe and let me just preview what this
looks like. Okay. I can get rid of this
setup here.
And what I'm going to do right here,
just going to bring this this way. Let's
go ahead and let's mix this together.
I'm going to add in a mix color. Plug
this one into the A socket. This one
into the B socket. And let me change the
blending mode here to multiply. And you
can definitely see what that's doing.
You can reduce it and increase it
depending on what you want. Somewhere
around here for this shoe works just
fine. And then on the straps, I'll make
sure that I have the right slot selected
on the straps. Okay, now we can see that
right here. They're using the same
material, so no need to do it for
different ones. I'm just going to remove
that image texture from here. We don't
need this one right here. And I'm going
to switch back to the slots to the
correct material slots right here. Okay,
so this is looking good for the shoes.
Yeah, I like what this is looking like
right now. I can plug that into the base
color and let's preview everything.
Okay, I'm also going to go ahead. I'm
going to pick the normal map on the shoe
right here. So, I have the multi on this
one. Okay, I don't have the multi on
this one. So, I'm just going to go
ahead. I'll select this one and I'm
going to duplicate this and I'm going to
create a new texture. This is going to
be called Jenny_normal_M.
Okay. And I'm going to create a new
image. Make sure this is set to non
color. And then I'm going to go to the
render properties here. I'm going to
scroll down. And this one we're going to
be the normals. Okay. Right here. I'll
make sure my multi-res is turned off in
the viewport. And under shape, I'm just
going to confirm the base right there.
And I can go ahead and we can bake this
all together. So I'm going to select
this. Make sure the shoe here is
selected. And I'm going to bake that.
Okay. And at this point, you can
definitely see that there's definitely
something wrong with the normal map
right here. So, the problem here is if I
go to the modifier properties here, the
mirror modifier is still turned on. So,
I'm just going to turn this off. You
also want to disable it in the render.
That's actually more important than
disabling it in the view port. So, let's
go ahead and let's bake that once again.
I'm just going to scroll down here and
let's bake that once again. Okay. And
now the normal maps actually bakes
correctly. Let's save this uh textures
folder. So, I'm going to save that one.
Okay. And let's preview this. So, I'm
going to add in a normal map right here.
So, I'm just going to add in a normal
map. I'll make sure this one is plugged
into the color or not into the strength.
And then, let's preview this. See what
this looks like. Okay, we can definitely
see what that looks like. Right here on
the straps here, you can see that the
color is completely black where the
straps actually were. So you can see
that the normal doesn't know what to do
where the straps are. So to actually
avoid this, I'm going to check clear
image and let's bake this one final
time. So I'm going to check clear image.
Let me just go ahead and I'm going to
bake this one final time. I'm going to
select the Jenny shoe nor select the
shoe. I'll go back to bake and then
let's bake this once again. And you see
that right here the normal map
completely fusing. So now if we preview
this, we shouldn't have issue that we
had before. the straps of the boots
should look completely fine. So these
are just some of the things I wanted to
show some of those common errors when it
comes to baking normal maps inside of
Blender. So just be sure to look out for
those. Okay, now I'm going to alt S to
save this and I'm going to come here to
the modifiers. We can get rid of the
mult modifier and I can turn back on the
mirror modifier. Okay, so this is what
we have right here. And then also on
this boot right here, I can add in a
subdivision surface modifier. And now
these two have the exact same modifier.
So we can actually go ahead and just
join them together this way. Okay, that
looks good. I like what that's looking
like. Also the same thing on the skits
right here. I can select the strap and
then the skirts since they have the same
modifiers. Ctrl G. We can join them
together at this point. Okay. Now let's
find some textures that we can use on
these different parts of the character.
So this leather texture, I actually like
this one for the boots. So, I'm just
going to place this right here. And then
I'm going to copy this material.
Ctrl C to copy this material. I'm going
to select the boots. And I'm just going
to paste this one right here. For this
one, the displacement map, we are not
really going to be using displacement.
So, I'm just going to delete that. And
right here, we have our beast color. So,
if you remember what we did on the
shirts, we are going to add in another
mix color right here. Let me just
maximize this. We're going to add in a
mix color setup here. way to plug this
into the A socket and also this one into
the B socket. The blending mode that we
used was overlay. And then I'm just
going to preview this. Let's take a look
at what this looks like right here. So,
let me just tone down the factor. So,
this is without the base color of the
PBR affecting it. And if I just start to
bring this up, you can definitely start
to see the base color effect in it. I'm
going to take this down to a really low
value of 2 somewhere around there. And
also on the scale right here, I'm just
going to increase the scale of this.
Okay, something more like that. And let
me plug this into the principled BSF and
I can preview this one all together.
Okay, something like that is definitely
not looking bad. Yeah, I like what
that's looking like. And then we have
the normal map right here. So I'm just
going to bring this one in here. I'm
going to select this one. Bring this up.
And if you remember how we added in the
normal map on the other material, that's
the exact same thing that we're going to
do here. So we going to use a vector mat
node. So just search for a vector mat
and make sure this is set to add. I'm
going to plug in the two vector mats in
there. And then we are going to
normalize this. So I'm going to search
for a normalized vector mat. And I'm
going to place this one right there.
Okay. And I can definitely see what we
have. You can go in and adjust the scale
even more.
Okay. And for this shoe, I'll probably
have another material just for this part
of the shoe just so that it's not
completely the same material for every
part of the shoe. So, I'm going to have
another material for this part of the
shoe. But for right now, this is fine.
So, that is for the shoe. You can see
what we have there. Let me go into
cycles and see what this looks like. So,
inside of cycles, this is what this is
looking like. Yeah, I like what that's
looking like. Okay. And then also the
same thing on the sket. Let me also go
ahead. I'll find a PBR texture that's
going to fit nicely for this one. So,
I'm just going to search for the fabric
materials. And I'm just going to check
out all the materials I have here, all
the options I have here, and find which
one is going to work nicely on this skir
material.
And I might actually end up just using
this one that I used for the shed also
for the sket. I might change that later
on, but for right now, I'm liking what
the texture is going to look like for
the sket. So, we're going to do the
exact same thing. I'm going to copy this
note set up except the material output.
Ctrl C to copy that. And then I'm going
to select the sket and I'm going to
paste this right here. Now, let's mix
all of these together. I'm going to
bring this one up here. And let's mix
this two this base color with our
original base color that we painted in
with the pointiness. So, I'm going to
add in a B color right here. I'm going
to change this to overlay. That was the
blending mode that we used. Going to
plug this one into the B socket and then
this one into the A socket. Let's
preview that and see what that looks
like. Just give it a second to load
right there. Okay. And if I zoom in,
I'll definitely take down the overlay.
Okay, somewhere around,
let me see what this looking like. I'm
just going to zoom in a little bit.
Okay, somewhere around.3 should be fine.
So, the material is really dark, so I'm
not really seeing much, but I'm just
going to leave it at 3.2 somewhere
around there should be fine. I'm going
to plug this into the base color right
there. And then let's add in our normal
map. So, I'm just going to select all of
these ones. I'm going to push them down.
I'll select these ones right here and
place them right there.
And then I'll add in a vector mat. I'll
add in this one right here. I'll place
it here. And also drag and drop this one
right here. And then let's add in a
normalize. Going to search for
normalize. And I'm going to select this
one. I'll place it right there just
before the normal imput into the
principal vsd. And right now this is
what we are having. I'm going to
definitely scale up that texture a lot
more. So, I'm just going to bring this
all. Okay. Something more like that. So,
I probably bring that down. I'm just
take it down. I still want to be able to
see the texture a little bit. So,
somewhere around here should be fine.
Okay. And I'm liking how that's looking.
I'm going to get rid of this principal
BSF. We don't need that one anymore. So,
now this is what I have for the skits.
This is what I have for the shoes. And
now let's work on the teeth, the tongue,
and the gong. So let me just find that
object here. I'm just going to slash
just to isolate this one. And for this
one, we are going to make some
procedural material. So let me just go
into the material preview mode. And
we're going to start adding in some
procedural textures. I'm going to start
with the tongue right here. I'll make
sure that the Jenny tongue slot is
selected. And on this one, I'm going to
add in a vorono texture right here. And
then I'm going to control shift left
click to preview this. And I'm just
going to bring up the scale this way. I
also add in mapping and the texture
coordinates. Ctrl T to add that in. And
I'm going to use the UV map on this one.
And I'm definitely going to bring the
scale up a lot more. So something like
this. And then I can add a color ramp in
front of this. I'm just going to search
for a ramp. I'll place that right in
front of this. And we can just crunch
this one in. And then we have something
like that. Let's use this as a bump map.
So, let me just adjust this right here.
And we're going to use this as a bump
map. I'm going to add in a bump node
right here. I'm going to place this one
into the height. And then the height
into the normal. And let me just preview
what the bump is going to look like
right here. And if we increase and
adjust the strength, then we're going to
have something like this. We can also
adjust the color. Okay. I'll just bring
the color around back here just so that
we don't have those spots on the bump.
And then you can also adjust the bump.
So something like this for the tongue.
And I'm going to increase the scale a
lot more. So I'll just bring this up
somewhere around here. And then let me
plug this into let me preview the
principled PSDF. And now we have
something that looks like this. You're
going to notice that the bump is going
in. So right here on this mode I can
just invert that one. And now I want the
bump to come out. Something more like
this. Okay. And then what we can do with
this right here, we can use this as a
max to change up our color. So I'm going
to add in a color node right here. I'm
going to copy our color from here and
then paste it right here. Okay. And for
the teeth, gums, and tongues, you can
actually go in and paint in an image
texture. I'm going to do that later on,
but for now, this is going to be fine.
I'm just going to use the color. And
then we're going to add in a mix color
right here. I'm going to plug this color
up into the factor. And then I'm going
to plug the color here into the A socket
and also into the B socket. And then
let's preview this. There's obviously no
difference here. So we're going to use
the hue saturation to make one of these
imputes a little bit different. So I'm
just going to plug this in between the B
socket. And then I'm going to adjust the
hue. So first of let me just play with
the value. I'm just going to bring down
the value just so I have some color
variation on the tongue right there. I'm
also going to bring down the saturation.
I'll bring that up. Then I'm just going
to play very slightly with the hue. We
don't want to change the hue around too
much. Okay. Something that looks like
that. And I'm going to plop this into
the base color. And then let's preview
this. Okay. And now you can see what we
have on the tongue. I'm going to bring
this up a little bit more. And I'm just
going to adjust this just so that we
have just a tiny subtle details on the
tongue. So something like this. And then
this also we can use as a roughness map.
So, I'm going to plug this one into the
roughness right there. And let's see
what we have. Okay, it's not looking too
bad. Something else that we can do is to
add in another texture and mix it with
this bino to control the roughness. So,
I'm going to add in a noise texture
right here. And I'm also going to use
the same texture and mapping coordinate
right here. I'll just plug this into the
scale here into the vector. And I'll
control shift left click on this. And
then we can increase the scale a lot.
So, I'm just going to bring this up. On
this one, I'm going to increase the
detail a little bit more. And I also
just bring up the roughness to about
somewhere around
6 should be fine. So, something like
this. And now we are going to multiply
these two together. So, I'm going to add
in a mix color right here. I'll change
the blending mode to multiply. I'm going
to plug the noise texture into the A
sockets and then the overall texture
into the B sockets. And then let's
preview this and we see what we have. So
this is completely with the noise
texture. This is with the veroi. I'm
just going to leave it halfway in the
middle. And I'm going to use this as the
roughness. And make sure that's plugged
into the roughness right there. Make
sure this one is plugged into the base
color. And then control shift left
click. And then let's see what we have
right there. Okay. Now you can see what
we have on the roughness. If you want to
adjust the roughness even more, you can
add in a color ramp right here. Then you
can play around with these sliders to
get what you like. So somewhere around
here, I'm just going to bring this up
just a little bit. So something like
this for the tongue actually looks good.
I'm going to increase the scale right
here for the tongue. Okay. And this is
looking good for the tongue. I'm going
to reduce the bump just a little bit. So
somewhere around here for the tongue.
Actually looks good. So just a very
simple note setup like this looks good
for the tongue. I'm going to copy this
note setup. Ctrl C. And for the gums,
I'm going to select the gums material
slot here. And I'm going to paste in
that setup. And I'm going to copy our
base color from the principal BSDF. I'm
going to paste that right here. So this
is for the gums. I'm going to plug this
on into the base color, the color into
the roughness, and then the bump into
the normal map. So now we have some that
looks like this for the gums. Okay. And
on the gums, I'll probably just bring up
the scale up a little bit more just so
that we have something that looks like
this. And yeah, that's starting to look
really nice like gums. And then for the
teeth, I'm just going to leave it like
this. Just really nice and white teeth.
You can go in with some textures and add
in some yellow coloration at the top of
the teeth. I'm going to do that a little
bit later on, but this how we're going
to go about creating the materials for
the teeth, the tongue, and the gum. So
something like this is starting to look
good right now. Now, let's work on the
skin shader. So, the skin shader is
going to be a little bit different from
these other ones. So, we still going to
bake some maps. On this one, I don't
have the mult. So, I'm going to be
killing the pointiness map on this one.
So, I'm going to go ahead. I'm going to
add in a geometry node right here. I'm
going to just preview until I get to the
pointiness impute there. And then I'm
going to add in a color ramp right here.
On this color ramp, I'm going to crunch
in the black. And I'm also going to
bring in the white slider here to 0.5.
Somewhere around there should be fine.
Then 4. I'm going to drag this in. Okay.
Now we have something that looks like
this. All right. Let's go ahead and let
me bake this one. I'm going to duplicate
this texture right here. And I'm just
going to close this asset browser. I
don't really need that one right now.
And I'm going to create a new image
texture here. is going to be called
Jenny
skin
pointiness. And then I'm going to create
a new I'll make sure I named this
correctly pointiness map. And then I'm
going to make sure that this is set to
non color. I'll make sure this is
selected. Make sure our character is
selected. I'll go back to the render
properties. I'll come down here to
emission. Make sure emission is
selected. And in this case, we can leave
clear image turned on. And I'm going to
go ahead and I'm going to bake this.
Okay, so that has baked out. Let's
preview this. Okay, so this is what we
have for the pointiness map. I'm just
also going to go ahead and I'm going to
save out that image that we don't lose
this. So, alt s. I'm going to go ahead
and save that image right there. And
let's go ahead and let's mix this two
together. I'm going to delete this. And
right here, I'm just going to bring this
back. We're going to add in a mix color
right here. And I'll bring this one into
the G socket. And then let's preview
this. The blending mode was multiply
that we used for the clothes. And then
let's see what this look like. So this
is without the pointiness input. Then
I'm just going to start increasing that.
Okay. Something like this looks good.
All right. That looks good with the
pointiness. You can increase or reduce
this depending on what you want. So let
me just play around with this.
Yeah, somewhere around here is going to
be fine with the pointiness. I like what
that's looking like. And let's preview
this. Okay, now it's looking good. And
then something else that I want to show
you when it comes to painting on your
character. So on my if I just open up my
reference here, we're going to notice
that she has the tattoos on her body. So
instead of painting that on the main
skin color map, another way that you can
approach doing that is with another
image texture. But the way you're going
to create that image texture, I'm just
going to show you how to do that right
now. So I'm going to add in an image
texture right here. I'm going to make a
new one. This is going to called Jenny
skin
tattoo. Okay. The color here was
important. So on the color, we want to
change the alpha down to zero. Okay. And
we're going to create a new image. And
if I preview this, you're going to
notice that nothing is showing cuz this
is a blank image right here. So you can
see that blank image. So we can go into
the texture painting workspace. I'll
just go into the texture painting
workspace. I'm also going to go to the
material preview mode. And let's just
say we had a green color right here.
Let's say the tattoo was green. Let me
just paint in something like this. And
let me also just paint in something like
this right here. So to be able to mix
this in with our skin base color, we can
do that once again with a mix color
node. So I'm just going to bring this
here. To mix this in, we can use a mix
color node right here. And we are going
to use the alpha as the factor. We're
going to plug our skin color map into
the A socket. And we are going to plug
the color into the B socket. And then
let's preview this. And now you can see
how that's working. So you just be able
to go in and draw on top of the skin.
Just like that. So that's just in case
you have tattoos on your character and
you don't want to mess up your base
color map. So that's how you go you
approach doing that. I'm going to
definitely draw much nicer tattoos after
I finish recording this. But for now,
this just to illustrate that. So let me
plug this into the principled BSDF base
color.
And then let me preview this. And now
this is what I have. I'm going to just
select this and mute this for now cuz I
don't want to see those ones right now.
Okay, now we have this. Something that I
like to do for the skin is to add in a
layer w node and we are going to use
this layer width node to affect the
color map right here. So I'm just going
to go into the render view. I'll go back
into the object mode and I'll add in a
layer width node right here. And if I
preview this layer with node, we are
going to be using this facing option
right here. So on this facing option,
I'm going to bring down the blend just
to something like this. And you might
already start to see what we going to
use this to do. I'm going to add in a
color ramp just before the layer width.
And I'm going to change the
interpolation here from linear to
bplline. And if I just bring this in,
okay, you're going to notice exactly
what we have. I'm going to actually flip
the color on. So, I'm just going to
bring the white here. And then the black
will be somewhere around here. Then I
can add in another color stop here and
just make this one completely black.
Okay. So, we have something that looks
like this. Now, we are going to mix this
in with our color map. So, I'm just
going to move this back here. And then,
we're going to add in a mix color right
here. I'll plug the base color map, the
base color map that we have right now
into the A socket. And then I'm going to
plug this color ramp into the B socket.
And let me preview this and see what
this looks like. Okay, so this is what
it's giving us. The blending mode that I
like to use on this one is the soft
light blending mode. And if we just
increase the factor here, you can
definitely see what that's doing. So I'm
just going to reduce the factor and
increase the factor. And you can see
it's just giving it's making this outer
part of the character a lot more vibrant
than what we had before. And then you
can just even come here and adjust the
way this is looking. But I like what
this is looking like. So you can
increase the factor here too. Okay. So
this is what we had before. And this is
what we have with the layer width. And I
really like what that looks like. So I'm
going to plug that into the base color
right there. And let's preview that.
Okay. And you can definitely see what
that's doing. So let me just plug in
this one. This is without the layer
weight and then this is with the layer
width. So I really like what that's
doing. You can tone down the effect
based on what you want. So I'm going to
play around with this a lot more. But
this is going to be the base color. So
I'm just going to put this into a group
F to group this. And then I'm going to
just call this color map. Now we have
something that looks like this. On this
skin we want to go in and we want to add
in some more color variation to the
skin. So the way we are going to do that
here, I'm going to come up here and I'm
going to add in a noise texture. So this
noise texture, we're going to use this
to drive the color variation on the
skin. I'm going to add in a mapping and
coordinates node. So you can press Ctrl
T to do this. And I'm going to make sure
we are using the UV texture coordinates
right there. And let me preview this.
Control shift. Let's click to preview
this. And we definitely need to increase
the scale up a lot more. So I'm just
going to increase this this way. I'll
take this about really high value. And
then I'm going to add in a color ramp
just in front of this. And if I bring in
the black sliders. Okay. So what we are
going to do is that these black parts of
the character are going to remain as
this same color that we have here. But
these white parts are going to have a
different color variation. Before I go
ahead and just mix these two together,
I'm just going to increase the scale
right here. I'll take that a lot higher.
Something more like this. And I can
increase this a lot more. Okay. So, we
have something that looks like this. I
can even bring this in. Can even bring
the black in a lot more.
Okay. Now, we have something that looks
like this. Now, let's mix this in. We're
going to use a mix color right here. And
I'm going to plug in the color ramp into
the factor. And then our color map into
the B socket right here. And then let's
preview this. Okay. And let me just show
you what this. So I'm just going to
unplug this for now. So I'm going to
just choose random colors here and then
you'll be able to see what is. So if I
just zoom in here, you're going to
notice that these black parts have the A
color right here. And then these white
parts have the B color right here. So
let me just preview that. So you're
going to notice that the white parts
have this B color and then the black
parts have the A color. So what we are
going to do, we are going to plug the
color map into the A socket and also
into the B socket. And for this B
socket, we going to have another
variation of the color map. And the way
we can do that is to add in the hue
saturation value node. So I'm just going
to add this in right here. And if we
just play around with some of these
settings, I'm just going to increase the
saturation right here. You can see what
that's doing. Also going to reduce the
value right there. Okay. And you're
going to start to see the different
color variation that we're having on the
skin. Can definitely go around and play
with the color ramp of the noise map of
the noise texture a little bit more.
Okay. So, we have something like this.
So, instead of the skin color just being
one even color, we just breaking it up
with this noise texture right here. So,
we have something that looks like this
for the noise texture. Okay. So, this is
going to be the first color variation.
I'm going to frame. I'm going to put
that into a frame. And I'm going to name
this color variation
one right there. Okay. So, this is the
first color variation. And if I just
select this one and move this back,
we're going to add in another color
variation. So, we're going to do the
exact same thing that we did here. We
are just going to use a different
texture. In this case, we're going to
use the Voronoi texture.
And I'm going to add a texture
coordinate and mapping node. And then
I'm going to make sure I'm using the
UVs. Let me preview this by control
shift left clicking on this. And I'm
going to increase the scale up a lot
more. Okay. So I just bring this up. And
we can also add in a color ramp right
there. Also just increase the scale from
right here.
Okay. Something like that. And let's
bring in the black sliders.
Okay. And now we have something that
looks like this. If you remember when we
mixed in this one. So the black parts
stayed the same and then the white parts
were different had a different color. So
I'm just going to flip this color around
so that we have something that looks
more like this. Okay. So this white
parts are going to have a different
color variation. And then the black
parts are going to stay the same. So you
can just adjust this depending on what
you want. Something like this looks good
for me. I can reduce the scale to about
190. Somewhere around there should be
fine. And then I'm going to mix it in
with this one right here. So, I'm going
to duplicate this. I'm going to plug
this color variation into the factor.
I'm going to plug this mix color into
the A socket. And then we can use this
same hue saturation value node and plug
that into the B color. And then let's
preview that. Okay. And now you're going
to see what we have. I'm just going to
plug this into the base color. And then
let me preview this and see what this
looks like.
Okay. So now we have something that
looks like this on the skin. If this is
too intense, you can come here to the
white color and then you can just bring
the color closer to black and then
that's not going to be that intense. So
somewhere around here, it's going to
work just fine for the skin of my
character. I like the I like what is
this looking like a lot more. So now we
have something that looks like this. But
you might have noticed an issue right
here. So if I just zoom into the mouth
here, into the lips, you can see we have
color variation on the lips. And we
might not exactly want color variation
on the lips. So what we going to do is
to use a max to tell these two different
color variations. Let me also just group
this ones. And I'm going to call this
color variation. Color variation too.
Okay. So we are going to use a max and
we are going to tell that max not to
affect some certain areas. So the way we
can create that max, we can use a new
image texture just like this or we can
make use of vertx painting. So in this
case, I'm just going to make use of
vertx painting. I'll go into the solid
mode and we can go into the vertx paint
workspace right here. Can go into the
vertx paint mode and we come down here
to the object properties. Vertx paints
in Blender called color attributes. So
we're going to be able to name this
color attribute. And I'm just going to
name this mask. Color variation mask.
Color variation mask. Okay. And I don't
want it to affect the lips. So, I'm just
going to go into edit mode. I'm going to
select these faces right here. I can
also go go in here and select the inside
of the mouth. So, that's just the mouth
back there. So, I just make sure that
that selected. Then I'll go into the
vertx paint. I'm going to turn on the
paint max option here. And I'm going to
paint this completely black. So, this is
going to be a black and white marks. In
vertx paint mode, you can use Ctrl X to
just fill in everything. Okay. So now we
have this nice mask right here. If you
want another part of your character not
to be affected by the color variation,
you can go ahead and paint those parts
in. But for now, I just want the mask I
just want the mouth not to be affected
by the color variation. So I'm going to
go back into object mode. And then let's
load this color attributes inside of the
shade editor. So I'm just going to come
in here and I'm going to search for the
color attribute right here. So this one
right here. I'm going to select the
color variation mask. And if I preview
this, let me go back into the material
preview mode. Okay, now you can see that
we have been able to preview that. Now,
to be able to tell the color of varation
not to affect that max, we're going to
use another mix color node right here.
So, I'm going to plug this one right
here. And I'm going to plug the color
attribute into the factor. And let me
preview this. See what this looking
like. You're going to notice that this a
little bit inverted right now. So, I'm
going to plug the color variation to the
B socket instead of the A socket. Okay.
And we don't want this part to be white
because white is the color that changes.
So we want this part to be black. So we
can come here can just change it to
completely be black. Okay. So that is
for the first color varation. I'm also
just going to duplicate this. And I'll
make sure that it's not in the same
frame. To remove it from that frame, I
can press AltB to remove it from that
frame. I'm going to place this one
inside here. And I'm going to place this
first color variation into the B socket.
And then I'm going to plug the result
from this mix color into the factor of
this mix color. And if I just preview
that, you can definitely see what we
have. And let me preview everything all
together. You're going to notice that
the lips have been excluded from having
the color variation. I'll just go back
into solid mode again. And then I'm
going to select this part of the lips
also. And then just add in the mask on
this part. I'll just paint this part
black. Can just go in and paint in those
parts black. And I'll go back into the
material preview mode. Now I've been
able to exclude out that part from the
mask and let's preview this in the
principal BSDF. And now we have
something that looks like this. So you
can come in here and adjust the color
variation until you have absolutely what
you like. I'm going to go ahead and do
that. So this is how you're going to add
some color variation to the skin. Now
let's go ahead and let's work on the
roughness. So we still need some
roughness for the skin and we still need
some bumpiness on the skin. And I'm
going to show you a very simple way of
doing it right here. There are more
complex ways of doing this. I'm going to
show you the easiest way. So, we have
this noise section already. I'm just
going to drag out from that factor right
there. And I'm going to add in a color
ramp this way. And on this color, I'm
going to plug this into the roughness
right there. And let's see what that
looks like.
Okay. You can already start to see that
we have some variation in the roughness
this way. So, we can play around with
the black sliders. You can come in here,
adjust the colors on the color, but I'm
going to leave this at the default. On
the lips right here, I want to exclude
the lips from having this roughness. So,
I'm going to use this marks that we made
right here. I'm just going to duplicate
this. Alt P to clear from that frame.
And what we want to do right here, I'm
going to pop this colum into the B
socket. And then, let's preview this. So
I want the lips to be reflective a
little bit. So to make it reflective, we
are going to leave it as the black
color. And then let's plug this into the
roughness right here. And then let's
preview this. And now you're going to
notice that the lips is completely
glossy. Okay. If you don't want it to be
too glossy, you can change up the colors
right here. So if you bring that to
white, it's not going to be glossy at
all. Once you start taking it down
towards black, you can start getting
much more shiny. So that's going to be
it for the roughness. You can definitely
come in here and adjust this that shader
a little bit more. And now we are going
to add in some bump to the skin. So I'm
just going to duplicate this. And the
way I'm going to duplicate this, I'm
going to hold on control shift D to
duplicate it. And by holding down
control shift D is just going to retain
the connection that it has here from the
noise texture. And I'm going to plug
this into the bump into a bump node. And
I'll make sure that that's plugged into
the height of the bump. And I'm just
going to move this one forward. And let
me preview the bump this way and see
what this is looking like. Okay, so
we're not going to have any bump on the
lips. I'm going to come in here and I'm
going to clean up the vertex colors.
I'll do that a little bit later on, but
you can already start to see what the
bump is going to give us. So, I'm just
going to reduce the strength right here.
I don't want it to be too intense. And
then I'm going to plug this into the
normal map. And then let me preview all
of this together and see what this is
looking like. Okay. Ah, this is
definitely looking good. You can reduce
the bump a little bit more. But now this
is starting to look like skin. And I
really like what that's looking like. So
I'm going to come in here. One final
thing that we're going to do for this
skin shader is to turn on subsurface
scattering. So right here I'm going to
toggle down the subsurface scattering.
And the subsurface method that I find
works best for the skin is actually the
random work skin. So I'm just going to
select that option. Then I'm going to
bring up the width somewhere around 0.5.
And I'm just going to preview this in
cycles and see what that looks like.
Okay. In cycles, you're going to notice
that some of the parts are turning
whitish are getting a little bit white
and we don't want that. The way I found
to tone that down is to come in here and
reduce the scale. So I'm just going to
reduce it to 0.01.
And now that looks a lot more like
subsurface. That looks a lot more like
what we are going to need for the
subsurface. And for the subsurface, I'm
just going to keep this about five.
Somewhere around there should be fine
for the skin. And now we have something
that looks like this for our character.
So I'm definitely going to go in and
play more with the shaders, adjust them
to what I like, and I highly suggest
that you go ahead and do the same. So
let's go ahead and let's summarize this
chapter. to to summarize now you
understand the difference between
shading and texturing. You've also seen
how we did shading and how we did
texturing and you know the simple
workflow the simple texturing workflow
that you can follow. So to recap first
off you're going to create basic
materials and then you're going to
create textures whether you're painting
them or baking them and then you're
going to use some procedural nodes just
like we did for the skin to enhance the
materials. And now you know that good
material rely on storytelling and subtle
detail to actually make them look good.
And don't forget if you need any extra
help, you can join the stylish character
academy where I'm going to be holding
your hand every step of the process. And
if you're loving this master class so
far, you can go ahead and leave a review
of the master class on Trust Pilot. The
link is going to be below this video.
And I'll see you guys in the next one.
We are going to start rigging our
character. I'll catch you guys in the
next one.
Welcome to chapter 12. This chapter is
all about rigging and posing your
character. I'm going to show you how you
can rig and how you can pose your
character and agenda for this chapter.
First off, I'll show you the
fundamentals of rigging. So, that's
everything that you need to know about
rigging when inside of Blender when
you're rigging inside of Blender. And
then I'll show you some Blender rigging
add-ons, some add-ons that you can use
to facilitate the process. Some of them
we are going to be using and then the
other ones you can explore on your own.
But I'm going to show you the options
that you have. And then I'm going to
show you how to actually pose your
character when you rig your character
cuz posing is actually much more
important than the rig. So I'll show you
some ways that you can some things that
you can use to improve the poses of your
character. And then we will dive into
Blender and we're going to rig and we're
going to pose our character. All right,
if you have not yet by now, share this
master class. Go ahead and share the
master class with someone. Let's help
more artists create work that they are
proud of. And for you right now, this is
the most important video in your D
master class. So, watch the entire
chapter. Don't skip and don't jump
around. All right, let's get started.
The fundamentals of rigging, basics of
rigging. What is rigging? Rigging is the
process of giving a character a skeleton
or the way we call it inside of Blender,
an amateur. And you can think of an
amateur like an action figure that is
going to allow you to move and to pose
each part of your character. So at this
stage, we want to add some bones or some
skeletons to our character. And that
skeleton is going to help us move our
character just like the way you would
with an action figure. So that's what we
are going to that's basically what we
are going to be doing with rigging. In
this chapter, we are going to keep
things very simple. I'll show you enough
of rigging just to be able to understand
what's happening when you're rigging to
avoid breaking your character and also
to learn how to create good-looking
poses with your rig. So, there's a lot
we could cover when it comes to rigging.
We could make a whole another course
when it comes to rigging. So, I'm just
going to be showing you just the bare
minimum that you need to know when it
comes to rigging. I will show you what
you need to know so you understand
what's happening when you're rigging.
You avoid breaking your character and
you can learn how to use that when
you're posing. you can learn how to use
your rig when you're posing your
character to create good-looking poses.
Okay, so that's what we're going to
cover in this chapter. So now, what is
an amateur? An amateur is a system of
bones that controls how your character
is going to move. So I mentioned earlier
that we are going to add in a skeleton.
The way we call that inside of Blender
is an amateur. So an amateur is a
collection of bones or systems of bone
of bones. So inside of Blender, we can
add in a bone just like this. And then
when we make a system of bones that is
an amateur. So these bones are connected
using something called a parential
relationship where one bone affects
another bone based on the hierarchy. And
I'll show you a quick example inside of
Blender right now. Let me just close
this. I'll show you a quick example
inside of Blender. So we have this
amateur right here. And with the
amateur, you'll be able to edit this in
edit mode. So edit mode is where you be
able to create new bones from already
existing bones. So if I just select this
one here, I can extrude just like this.
And then we also have the pose mode. The
pose mode is where you're going to pose
the bones and animate the bones in the
way you want. So edit mode is where
you're going to create the bones. And
then pose mode is where we're going to
pose and animate the bones. So these
bones. So you're going to notice if I
move this one now, you're going to
notice that all these other bones
connected to it are moving. And that is
because this bone right here is
connected to this one. It is this bone
right here is a child of this one. Okay.
Also the same thing here. If I rotate
this one, you can see that all these
other ones are moving. And that's
because this bone here is a child of
this one. So that's the same thing going
on here. These two bones right now are
child of this one. So this is the parent
of this bone. So there's just that
parent child relationship between the
both of them. Also the same thing is
going on right here. So you might think
that these bones are not connected just
because they are separate. But if I
rotate this one, you're going to see
that this is still parented to this one.
So a child bone can be offset from the
parents. But you're going to notice here
by indication of this relationship line.
You're going to see that we have those
bones still parented to each other. So
that's how the parent child hierarchy
works inside of Blender. Okay, let's go
back to the slides. Now making our
character move. When we add bone, when
we add bones, that doesn't make our
character move just yet. We need a way
to bind our character to these different
bones. And the way we do this inside of
Blender is to assign weights. And you
can think of weights as telling each
bone which part of the model it should
control. So we are going to go in and
we're going to add bones to our
character. But that doesn't make the
character move yet. We need to tell
which bone the part of the character
that is going to affect. So for example,
right here we have this headbone.
Instead of this headbone controlling the
leg, cuz that can actually happen, we
are going to tell the headbone only to
control the head of this character. So
we are going to be assigning weights.
And inside of Blender, it has made
really easy. We can assign, we can
assign automatic weights to each of
these bones. And Blender is going to
guess where each of the bone or which
parts of the character each bone is
supposed to control. So we are going to
assign weights. And I'll show you how we
going to do that inside of Blender. So
you can think of it as assigning
influence from each bone to the
different parts of the body. So that's
how we're going to make our character
move. And when it comes to the width
influence, each bone can have anywhere
from 0%.
100% influence over a vertex. 0% means
no control. 100% means full control. And
this influence can be blended between
multiple bounds so that the movement can
look natural. So right here you can see
that this red zone, this red right here
means 100% influence. So this part red
is 100% controlled by that bone. And
then we have this kind of fall off right
here. So it's falling off into blue.
Blue means that that part doesn't have
any control over that that bone doesn't
have any control over that part. So you
can see that there's a nice blend
between these two B so that when we
rotate it it rotates and moves
naturally. So inside of Blender the way
we can see this weights is in the W
paint mode and is represented like a
heat map. So red is 100% and then blue
is 0%. Blue means no influence and red
means full influence. So this is going
to make it really easy for us to
understand how our character is going to
deform when we start posing it. So
that's how w works inside of Blender.
Now we are going to take a look at some
Blender rigging add-ons that going to be
helpful when we are rigging our
character. There are a few add-ons that
can that we can make use of to make
rigging much easier. So first off is the
rigify add-on. And this one we're
actually going to be using. So let me
just go inside of Blender here. And I'm
just going to hide this. I'm also going
to erase this. And I want you to go
ahead and enable this add-on. go up to
edit preferences
and then under the add-ons tab search
for rigify right here and then you just
want to make sure that this is turned
on. Okay, so rigify is the rigging
add-on that we're going to be using and
what rigify is going to do for us. It's
going to give us some presets that we
can use and place on our character to
generate a fullyfledged rig ready for
animation. So right here if I just add
in the meta rig there are many options
here. We have the human option, we have
the animal options, and we also have
some basic ones in case you're not doing
advanced rigging. So, in our case, we're
going to be using the human rig. So,
these bounds we are going to place
appropriately on our character. And once
we finish placing those appropriately,
we going to generate a rig. So, it's
going to generate a rig with all the
controls, all the mechanism bound. So,
we are going to be able to skip a lot of
the technical phase of rigging when it
comes rigging with rigify. So it's going
to control it's going to create all
these control bones that we can use to
control our character. We're just going
to skip all the technical stuff that
comes rigging. So rigify is a really
good add-on. That's the one we are going
to be using. Okay. So that's rigify.
It's inbuilt inside of bender. Make sure
to enable that right now. The second
add-on is the auto rig pro add-on which
is similar to the rigify addon. And let
me just open it up right here. So, the
auto rig pro add-on is very similar to
rigify, but it has some features that
make rigging ATV easier. So, you're
going to be able to guess the markers.
It's going to be able to guess where the
fingers of your character is. That's
just one feature. It has a lot of
features that makes rigging easier. But,
it's a paid add-on. If you want to go
ahead and you want to use auto rig pro,
that's completely fine. You can go ahead
and purchase it and also use it. And you
can explore that option on your own. I'm
just going to be showing you how to use
the rigify option here. Okay. So, those
are the two add-ons. You can use the
rigify and the auto repo. Now, let's
come back from the technical stuff and
let's come back to the more artistic
stuff. So, posing your character. Why
does posing matter? Posing is one of
those things that can make or break your
character. and you can have a really
good model, but if the pose is bad, the
whole model or the your whole render is
going to look off. So, at this stage, we
want to slow down and be intentional
about when we are making our poses.
Okay? So, I'm going to show you some
things to keep in mind when it comes to
posing your character. First things
first, you want to make sure that you're
using reference. If you're not using
reference when you're posing your
character, then you're doing something
wrong because you may know what a
movement feels like, but you actually
don't know what it looks like. And I'm
going to prove that to you by asking you
a very simple question. And if you can
answer this question correctly, then you
don't need references. So the question
is, do you know how much your shoulder
is going to tilt if you raise one of
your hands up?
Do you know how much your shoulder is
going to tilt if you raise one of your
hand up? If you don't know the answer to
that question, that's exactly why you
need to use reference. Also, using
reference is going to help you avoid
common mistakes when it just comes to
posing. So, make sure you find a
reference of your pose. You can find
references everywhere on the internet.
You can find from Pinterest. Your
concept might also have a pose. So,
that's good to you can also use your
concept as a reference and you can also
find additional references in case
you're unsure of what the pose is
supposed to look like. So when you find
your references, here's what to look for
in your references. So first off, you
want to find the line of action. Let me
just use the annotation here. You want
to find the line of action in your and
what the line of action is is the line
going through the movement of your pose
that's going to clarify the pose. So
let's identify the line of action on
this reference right here. So on this
reference we have the line of action
coming from the head down through to the
leg right here. So that's a clear line
of action. We can see the we can already
feel the movement in this pose. Let's
identify the line of action right here.
So coming down from the head and down
through the legs right here. So that's a
clear line of action. And then on this
one coming through the head.
And then we have a clear line of action
just like this. So the line of action is
going to be really important. We want to
make sure that we identify the line of
action before we start posing so that we
have a clear understanding of how the
movement is supposed to be like before
we start creating or recreating the pose
inside of Blender. Okay. Then the next
thing that you want to look out for is
that you want to make sure that you find
the balance in the pose of your
reference. So it's important that you
find the balance so that you make sure
that when you're recreating this pose
that your character is balanced. So
let's find the balance on this one right
here. On this pose, the balance is right
here in the middle. Okay. So that's
where the balance of this pose is. This
one is a little bit different. You can
see that her hips are shifted because
her weight is on one leg. So right here
we have the balance
right here. Okay. And also is a little
bit different on this one. So on this
one we have the balance right here. So
you can see how for these different
poses we have balance on different parts
of the character. So you want to ensure
that you identify the balance in the
pose of your character. And then when
you're using reference you don't want to
stick to your reference one to one.
Especially since we are creating stylish
characters. You want to exaggerate the
pose a lot more than what we see on a
reference, especially because we're
creating stylish characters and
realistic movements may not always look
the best on your stylish character. So,
you want to exaggerate the pose a lot
more than what you see on your
reference. And when you're posing your
character, you want to make sure that
you avoid symmetry. Symmetry looks very
unnatural on anything that's supposed to
be humanlike. So you want to make sure
that you avoid symmetry. So whether is
on the fist, on the hands, the both
hands should never be like the same just
on the side of your character. You want
to make sure that there's a bit of
asymmetry. Also on the legs, you want to
make sure that there's asymmetry. So
make sure that you add a little bit of
asymmetry to the pose of your character.
Okay? So things to keep in mind. Number
one, make sure you're using reference.
And then number two thing that I want
you to keep in mind when you're posing
your character is contraostto. And the
simplest way I can define contraosto to
you is that it is what makes a pose feel
natural. If you want to avoid stiff
unnatural offbalance poses, you have to
use contraosto when you're posing. And
contraostto is when the weight of the
body is shifted onto one leg causing a
natural chain of opposing to in the hips
in the torso and in the shoulder. So
when we stand naturally as humans we
tend to shift our weight from one leg to
the other and because of that weight
shift there's going to be an opposing
chain of teeth in the hips in the torsos
and in the shoulder. So right here on
this character, you can see that she's
balanced on this foot right here. And
because of that, you can see the way the
hip is tilted. Okay? And the shoulder is
tilted this other way. It's countering
that. So this one is tilted this way.
And because of that, the shoulder is
tilted this way. So that creates balance
in the pose. You can also notice right
here, this side is elongated while this
side of the torso is compacted. So you
can see the way we have opposing tilts
in the hips in the torso and the
shoulder also the same thing right here.
Her pose is on this leg and then we have
her hips going down this way and her
shoulder coming up this way. Okay. Also
the same thing on this pose. So
contraostto is really important. You're
going to notice it a lot on the
shoulders and on the hips. So make sure
that you don't have parallel poses for
the shoulders and for the hips. The
angles should opposed each other. Okay.
So, make sure to keep that in mind. So,
this is going to help once again break
symmetry
and make your pose feel alive. So, make
sure to keep this in mind. Contra post.
Okay. And then the last thing I want you
to keep in mind is that we can further
push our poses with shape keys if we
need to. So, if we pose our character
with our rig and we find that it's not
giving it is not giving us what we want,
we can push it further with a shape key.
Sometimes a rig alone may not be enough
to achieve the pose that we want. So in
those cases we can use shape keys and
shape keys are going to allow us to push
and refine the pose beyond the limits of
the rig. So they can add they can help
add extra polish and control the final
result. So just make sure that you know
this you can use shape keys to further
push your poses if you need to. So like
like this example right here this was
what we got with the rig and then the
shape key has been added to further
refine. So just keep that in mind. You
can use shift keys to push your poses.
Okay, at this point we are going to dive
into Blender and we're going to reach
and we're going to pose our character.
So this is where we left off on our
character from the last chapter. We done
with the texturing. So you should have
really nice textures on your character.
So at this point we are going to go
ahead and we are going to start rigging
our character. Let's make some new
collections for our rig here. So, I'm
going to select the CH collection, the
main collection, and I'm going to press
C to create a new collection. I'm going
to create two new collections. So, just
press C twice. On this first collection,
I'm going to name this ch jelly
rig. And for this one, this is going to
be ch
jelly
model. Okay. So we are going to drag all
our geometry objects into the model.
Just drag everything. If anything comes
up from that collection, we can drag it
back to that collection. And then also
these two collections here, I'm just
going to drag them into the chenn model.
So this collection is going to be our
entire character. And then this
collection, the one we are going to be
working with today is going to be our
rig collection. So make sure that that
one is selected. We are going to be
adding our rig objects into this
collection. Okay. So, select that rig,
right? That collection right there. And
we are going to add in a rig. To add in
a rig, like I mentioned, we are going to
be using rigify. Shift a amateur. Come
down here to rigify. And then you can
add in a human metal rig. Okay. So, this
bones we are going to be placing it to
fit our character. And to be able to do
that, we are going to need to transform
this rig. So, I'm not going to be
transforming this rig in objects mode.
I'm going to be transforming this rig in
edit mode. And it's important not to
transform it in object mode so that all
these can stay the same. We don't want
to play around with this. So, I'm going
to go into edit mode right here. And
we're going to start transforming the
rig. The first thing I want to do is to
scale this down to the height of our
character. So, I'm going to move my
pivot point to the 3D cursor. I'll make
sure it's at the 3D cursor here. And I'm
just going to scale this down to fit the
height of my character. Okay. So,
something like that. We're going to
adjust this a lot more. And I might just
move this one back a little bit. Okay. I
want to be able to see the rig in front
of the character so that it's going to
be a little bit easier for us place
those bones. So, I'm going to select the
rig. I'm going to come here to the
object data properties under view port
display right there. I'm going to make
sure in front is checked and just so
that we can focus on the body and the
rig. I'm going to select the body and
the rig and slash to isolate just those
two so that we can place the bones more
efficiently. Okay. So, I'm going to go
into edit mode on the rig and let's
start off with these bones with the leg
bones and with the spine bones. So, I'm
going to select box select this leg
bones right here. And then I'm also
going to select this spine bones. You
can hover over them. I press L to select
them. I'm also going to come in here.
I'm going to L to select these ones. And
I also make sure I select this face bone
inside of the headbone. Okay, that one
is very important. So, this this way I'm
going to press shift H to isolate every
other thing so that we can just focus on
this one. So, let's start off from right
here. Right here. I'm going to select
these ones. And these bones, if you
select them, you're going to notice
their names up here. So, that will give
you an understanding of where you should
place these bones. So, I'm going to
select this ones G and Z. I'm just going
to move these ones up right here. Okay,
this one I can just bring it up. This
one is for the rib cage. So, we can
place it somewhere around here. And we
can just evenly space this ones out.
I'll make sure that this looks good from
the front. And also something that we
want to do so that any change that we
make on the left side is going to be
reflected on the right side. We want to
make sure that we turn on X symmetry
right here. So with that turned on, we
just need to work on one side. So I'm
going to place this one right here. I'm
going to go from the side view. I can
see that the spine is off a little bit.
So I'm just going to select all these
spine bones. I'm using L to select them.
And also this one right here. You're
going to notice that these two bones are
disconnected. So before moving this, if
you move this, you are going to
disconnect them. So I'm just going to
box select that part of the bone right
here. So that if I move this, I don't
disconnect those bones. So I'm going to
move this to somewhere around here. And
then I'm also going to place this spine
bones just like this. And I'll bring
this one here. And I can select I can
box select this one. I'll just select
this bone right here. And I'm going to
move this one forward. And I also move
this pelvis bone right here forward a
little bit. So we want something that
looks like this for the spine. Okay, I'm
just going to adjust this and make sure
that that looks good. So this is going
to be for the spine. Now let's work on
the legs. From the side view, I'm going
to bring this leg bone to the middle
right here. This bone, I'm going to make
sure to place it on the knee of the
character.
This bone right here is for the foot.
So, I'm going to place this one right
here on the foot where the foot is going
to rotate from. And then this one right
here is for the toe. I'm going to place
this one for the toe right here. Okay.
And I'll make sure that that fits the
shape of the toe. And then this bone
right here is for the heel. So, this is
where the leg or the heel of your
character is going to rotate from. And
for this one, I'm just going to press
slash to bring back all the other
objects. And I'll make sure that this
heel bone right here is at the bottom of
the shoe right here. So that when our
leg starts to rotate, it actually
rotates from this center point right
here. Okay. And then from the front, S
and X. Let me just switch this back to
my ple back to medium point. S and X.
I'm going to let me just select this
one. S and X. I'm going to scale it up
just to fit the size of the shoe. So
something like that. I'll go back into
edit mode or into object mode. I'll
select those two and slash to isolate
just those two. Okay. So, we have the
bones from the side view. Okay. And very
importantly, you want to make sure that
on the leg bones, you have a little bit
of a bend on the leg right here. Let me
just change this color. Okay. You want
to make sure you have a little bit of a
bend on this kneebone so that Blender
knows that we want to rotate the leg
bone in this direction. Okay. Okay. So,
make sure you have a bend on the bone.
Don't make it completely straight unless
that can affect the rotation. The way
blender is going to rotate the bone.
Okay. So, make sure we have this bend
right here. So, from the front view,
this is looking good. Let me take a look
at this from the from the side view.
This is looking good. Let me take a look
at this from the front view. And from
the front view, I'm just going to select
all of these.
And then I'm just going to move them on
the X-axis just so I can be in the
middle of the leg right there. So
something like that is going to be
completely fine for the legs. And then
this one also I'm just going to scale
this down. Make sure that's the size of
the feet right there. Okay. So these are
for the leg bones. Let's take a look at
the head. So let's line up the neck
bones. These two are for the neck. As
you can see from the name right here is
named spline, but it's for the neck. So
I'm just going to place this one right
here. And I'll just GZ. I'm going to
move this one up. And then I'm going to
place this one right here. I'm also
going to select this one, G and Z. I'm
just going to move this one up to the
tip of the head right there. And this
face bone, you don't need to you don't
really need to adjust this one right
here. Okay. So, I'm just going to leave
that one. You can just move it up
slightly up. The size of this one
doesn't really matter in this case. So,
these are for the spine bones. And for
the leg bones, alt H. I'm going to
unhide every other thing. And let's
place this breast bone. If you select
this one is named breast bone. So this
bone is for the breast. From the side
here I'm going to place this one right
here
just at the bottom right here. And then
from the front view I'll select this
one. I'll just move them to the middle
of the breast right there. Okay. Now we
have something that looks like that. I'm
going to select these other hand bones
right here. So the shoulder and the
hands for both sides. And let's just
focus on just this ones. Shift H to hide
every other thing. And then for this
shoulder bone here, I'm going to select
this one. I'll just place it to follow
the shape of the clavicle right here.
This one, I'm going to move it back into
the shoulders. So, something like this.
Okay. And I'm also going to just move
this one this way. I want to make sure
not to create a new bone right there.
So, if you create if you press F, it's
going to create a new bone. So, you want
to make sure not to do that. That's not
what we want. Okay. right here. I'm
going to select this ones and I'll move
this one to the elbow. This one is going
to be right here for the arm. And then
from the side view, I'm going to select
this on G and Y. I'm going to move this
right here to the elbow. And then these
ones, I'm going to G and Y and move this
ones right here. And then I'm going to
place this handbone right there for the
hand.
Okay, now we have something that looks
like this. All right, this is not
looking too bad. I'm going to adjust the
shape of the shoulder bone. I'll just
move this one to right here. All right,
something like this. And now, let's
focus on this finger joint. So, I'm just
going to select all these finger joints.
I'm just hovering over them and pressing
L to select them. I'll select just this
ones. I also do the same for the other
side. L to select these ones right here.
Okay. And then shift H to hide every
other thing. And we are going to focus
on just these hand bones right now. Just
these finger bones. Right now I'm going
to select this one. And I'll just
roughly place them where the thumb
should be. Also the same thing for these
ones right here. When you're moving
these ones, you want to make sure that
you don't just move this one
individually cuz you're going to
disconnect those bones right there. So
you want to make sure that you're box
selecting this one. Then you can also
select these ones. and then roughly
place them in the position. I'm just
going to select all these ones and I'm
going to roughly place them into
position. And then for these ones, I'll
make sure that they in the middle of the
palm right here. So these are the palm
bones. And then for the fingers, the way
that we're going to place the fingers,
I'm going to show you how I like to
place the fingers. So we want to place
this finger inside of the finger volume
right here. So the easiest way to do
that, we going to go into edit mode on
the body of our character. We're going
to tab into edit mode and we can select
this vertx right here. So we want to
move this bone to right here. So shift
S, cursor to selected. And then we're
going to go back to our rig, go into
edit mode, shift S, selection to cursor
right there. Okay, we're going to do the
same thing for all the bones. So I'm
going to select this one. Also select
this one right here. Shift S cursor to
selected and then I'm going to select
this one. Shift S selection to cursor
right there. Okay. So that's how we're
going to go ahead and we're going to do
for all these fingers. Let me just show
you how I do it for this one. I'm going
to select this one and also these edges
right here. Shift Sor selected and
selection to cursor right there. And
then for this one, I'm going to place
these bones around the knuckles. So
right here, I'm just going to select
these loops right here and also these
loops right here. Just so that the 3D
cursor can be somewhere around there. So
shift S. I'm going to say cursor to
selected. Okay. So the three cursor is
right there. And then I'm going to go
into edit mode. I'm going to select
these ones and then shift S selection to
cursor. So this exactly how we want to
place the fingers. So I'm going to go
ahead and I'm going to do the same thing
for all these other fingers.
>> 
>> Okay. So I've gone ahead and I've just
placed these fingers in the volumes of
our fingers. I've placed the finger
bones in the volumes of our fingers.
Okay. So there's still a lot wrong with
these fingers. But I'm going to leave it
like this. Now we are going to when we
generate our rig, something is going to
go wrong. But I'm going to leave it like
this. Now I'm going to show you how you
can resolve those errors in case you get
them next time when you're rigging your
character. So there's definitely
something wrong with these fingers. I'll
show you what it is once we go ahead and
generate the rig. But for right now, alt
h we can unhide every other thing. And
now we are going to focus on the face
bones. Okay. So we going to go ahead and
we're going to place this face bones. So
I'm just going to select all of them
right here. I'll make sure to also
select the ears. Okay. And then shift H
to hide every other thing. Okay. Now we
have the face bones. The face of my
character is a little bit wide. So I'm
just going to S and X. I'm just going to
scale these ones out. And I'm just going
to bring this down just so that I can
start lining this up a little bit
better. So if you select all these
bones, you're going to see where these
bones are supposed to be. So this one is
for the forehead. This one is for the
temple. This one are for [clears throat]
the ear. So I'm going to come in here.
Let's start off with this one for the
ear. And the easiest way to place these
face bones is to turn on face snapping
right here. So up here, make sure the
projection type is set to face project.
And then we also want to check rotate
and scale. So I'm just going to turn on
snapping right there. And we just place
this on the ear just like this. Okay. So
three bones. One, two, three for the
ear. And then two on this side is how I
like to place it. Just like this. So
that is for the ear. Okay, both for the
left and for the right. Now let's place
this temple bone right here. So this is
the temple for the left side. So I'm
going to place this one right here. I'm
going to select this one and place it
right here. This is the jawbone. So I'm
going to select this one, place it right
here. So that the jaw can be right
there. And then this one is for the
jawl. So that's the left side of the
jaw. So I'm going to place this one
right here. This one is for the chin L
which is the left side of the chin. I'm
going to place this one right here. And
one thing very important. So most of
these fizz bones are disconnected. They
are on top of each other but they are
disconnected. So you want to make sure
that you don't just select one of these
and then just move them cuz that can
create an error when we want to generate
array. So just make sure that you select
you box select for all these ones are
disconnected. Make sure you box select
them and then you can move them to where
they're supposed to be. So this one
right here is going to be the corner of
the mouth. So I'm going to move it right
there to the corner of the mouth. This
one is the cheekb which is the cheek the
bottom of the cheek. So I'm going to
select this one. Place it right here for
the bottom of the cheeks. This one is
the cheek top. So this is the top of the
cheek. I'm going to place this one right
somewhere around here. And I'm going to
select this one. This is the cheek top
too. I'm going to place this one right
here. These ones are for the forehead.
So I can go ahead. I'll place them right
here for the forehead bone. Okay. And I
can just adjust this one also. So right
here for the forehead bone up here. The
forehead for your character might not be
this high up, but I know that this
character has eyebrows somewhere around
here. So I'm going to just move the
forehead bones up this way. Okay. So
these ones are the brow t-bone. So these
are for the top of the brow. So, I'm
just going to slash to bring back the
rest of my character just so I can see
where the brow of my character is. And
then I'm just going to select this one
and move it right here to where the
brows actually actually are. So, I'm
just going to move them just slightly
above the eyebrows. Okay, this one is
going to be up here. And then this one I
can select and move to somewhere around
here. And then I'm just going to select
just the body and the meta rig. And then
just slash to isolate them this way.
Okay. So we have something that looks
like this. For these bones in the
middle, you what you want to avoid is
just moving them anyhow cuz that's going
to disconnect those bones. So the way I
like to move these ones, I'm going to
turn off snapping. Make sure to turn off
snapping. Very important. And then from
the side here, G. And we're going to
move it to where it should be. Okay. I'm
going to move all these bones in the
middle. I'm only going to move them from
the side view. Okay. Very important. So
that we don't disconnect those bones.
So, I'm going to box select this one.
This one is for the nose right here, as
you can see. So, I'm going to place this
one right here. This one is for the tip
of the nose. I'm going to place it right
here. This one is going to follow the
shape of the nose and just stop at the
top of the mouth right here. So, just a
shape like this for these bones are
good. Okay, we're going to come back to
the mouth a little bit later. This one
is for the chin. So for right here, this
one is for the main part of the chin.
And then this bone is for the jaw. So
I'm going to place this one right here.
Okay. And then these bones on the side
here. I'm going to select this ones. I
can turn back on snapping in this case.
Now I just snap it to the side of the
nose. This one I'm going to snap to
right here. Just above the side of the
nose right there. This one I make sure
this is snapped to the top of the
cheeks. And this one is going to be
right here. for these bones of the
mouth. This one is for the lower lip.
So, I'm going to select this bone right
here and just place it in the middle
right there. Then also this one, I'm
going to place it in the middle right
there. Okay, I'll just make sure to
place that in the middle. And then these
ones I'm going to turn off snapping and
I'll go from the side and move them.
Very important. So, just turn off
snapping. Select them. Box select them.
You don't want to disconnect them. So,
just box select them and then move them
right here.
Okay. And we have these ones. These are
for the brow.b, which is the bottom of
the brow. So for this one, I'm going to
turn on snapping. And I'm going to move
this one right here. So I'm just going
to move this to the top to the bottom of
the brow right here. So just somewhere
around here should be fine. For these
bones, I'm going to adjust this one a
little bit. So you can adjust the
placement of any of these bones. So
something like this. We have these bones
for the browb which is the bottom of the
brow. Okay. And that should be most of
the bones. Now let's place these ones
for the eyelids. So this is one corner
of the eyelid. Is the right corner of
the eyelid. This one is for the left
corner of the eyelid. This one right
here is for the middle of the eyelid.
And don't if you notice that the bone is
getting big. Don't worry about that.
It's just snapping to the back faces. So
you don't need to worry about that. Just
move that to where you actually want it
to be. Okay. And it's going to snap
properly. This one I'll move it right
here. So for these ones, I'm just moving
it to the edge of the eyelid right here.
And move this one to right here. And I'm
going to move these ones into place.
So something like this for the eyelid
bone. Eyelid bones actually look good.
Okay, this is looking good. Now we are
going to make the eye bone. This bone
right here, we're going to make this one
follow the shape of the eye. So I'm
going to slash to bring back my
character. And we're going to move this
one to the center of the eye. So I'm
going to select the corner right here.
This corner object. I'm going to select
our rig and just isolate just those two.
Okay. And we're going to put our 3D
cursor at the center of this corner
object. So, let me just snap my or focus
on this object. Then, shift S cursor to
selected right there. Okay. And then on
this bone, I'm going to select the head
of this bone. So, right here, shift S,
selection to cursor. And I'm also going
to select the tail of this bone. Shift
S, selection to cursor. And for that
one, I'll turn off snapping. And I'll
just move it on the Yaxis, just straight
to the front like that. And I can also
just move this on the X-axis a little
bit more. Okay, now we have something
like this. And that's all the fist
bones. The ones that we tend to forget
sometimes are the tongue bones and the
teeth bones. So let's make sure not to
forget those. I'm going to slash to
bring back every other thing. I'm going
to select the jaw and the metal and
slash to just isolate those ones. And we
are going to place this bone. So this
one for the tongue. I'm just going to go
into extreme mode right here. And I'll
place this one where the tongue is
supposed to be. So we have these three
bones for the tongue.
So just go in and place those ones
appropriately right here. And then we
have this bone for the teeth. So if you
select it says teethb which is teeth
dobbottom. So this for the bottom teeth
right here. It's just one bone. Just go
ahead and place it to fit the shape of
the teeth right there. Okay. So we have
something that looks like this. Right
now I'm going to slash to bring back all
the other objects and alt H to unhide
every other thing. Okay, so we have gone
ahead and we have placed all the bones
for our character. Okay, so that's how
rigify works. We need to place the bones
appropriately and now we'll be able to
generate a rig for our character. To be
able to generate the rig for our
character, let's come down here to the
object data properties and we can
generate the rig. Before we generate
this rig, you're going to notice this
warning right here. It says this metal
rig uses the old face rig. So, Blender
updated the rigifier to use a new face
rig. So, now that we already placed
these bones, you're just going to
upgrade the face rig. Okay. And you're
going to notice add some extra bones
right there. Okay. The one I like to
adjust is this jaw master bone right
here. And I'll just bring that down
closer to the ear right here. So, just
somewhere around there. So that's where
the jaw is going to open from. Okay. So
we have something that looks like this.
So just make sure you're happy with the
placement of everything. I like what
everything is looking like so far. Okay.
I'll go back into object mode and we can
come down here to rigify and then we can
generate our rig and just give that a
second and it's going to generate a nice
rig that we can now use to control our
character. So this did a lot of things
behind the background. He added in some
mechanism bones. added in all these
controls did a lot for us. So we just
we're able to skip all the technical
part of rigging and just get to this
stage. So that's the advantage of using
rigify and add-ons like auto pro. Okay.
So that is what we have with auto pro.
And if I just go into pose mode for this
rig that I generated for us we are going
to mainly going into pose mode. In edit
mode there a lot of things going on in
edit mode. You don't really want to
touch anything. Just leave things the
way they are. Let's go into pose mode
and let me toggle X-ray off. Then I'll
go back into pose mode. We can start
moving the rig. Okay, once we move the
rig, we notice that our character is not
moving with it. Okay, so we need to bind
our character to this rig. We are going
to do that. Let me just sect the
character and the rig. I'm just going to
isolate just these ones and I can select
the character and the ridge and then
Ctrl P to parent them and we are going
to pair them with automatic weights. So
remember in the fundamentals I said we
are going to tell each bone which part
of the character that is going to
control. So that's what we are doing
right now. We going to parent those
bones with automatic weight. So just go
ahead and press that and then give that
a second to load and it's going to come
up with something really nice that we
can use to push and pull our character
or pose our character into the shape
that we want. So just give that a second
and it should load. Okay, once that is
done, we can go back into pose mode. You
can just use control tab to go into pose
mode really easily. Okay, and you can
rotate this and you're going to notice
that your character is rotating. Okay.
And you can have fun with this one.
Okay. Just take your time. If you've
never used the rig rig before, you can
come in here, play around with these
different rig settings. So you can So
with rigify, there's a lot of things
that come rigify. Some of them can be a
bit unnecessary and can also just cloud
up the scene. So you can turn some of
them off from here. You don't need to
see all the wounds right now, but I'm
just to leave them on. You can come in
here around the rig and see how the rig
is working. Okay. So I mentioned
remember I mentioned that we did
something wrong on the hands. So if I
select this right now and I scale down
the hands. These bones are used to call
the hands. So to put the hand into a
fist position. So if you scale them it
should call the hand. Well in this case
we have this error right here. So it's
moving in a whole completely different
direction than what we want. Okay. So
let's go back to our meta ridge. So I'm
just going to go back into object mode
and I'm going to slash back the meta
rig. I'll just these three. So the body,
the meta rig and the rig that I
generated for us and just isolate those.
Okay. So when we generate a rig, we can
always still come back and regenerate
the rig in case we make a change. So
we're going to make some changes here.
Make sure that fingers are working
properly here. So to fix up the fingers,
what we want to make sure that we do is
make sure that the bone roll is correct.
So, we want the axis to be facing the
right direction. And in this case, we
want the x-axis to be facing this
direction. And let me just zoom into
this just so we can see that be clearly.
I'm just going to zoom into this. So, we
want the x-axis to be facing this
direction. And we want the z axis to be
facing downwards. Okay. For most of
these bones, that's already happening.
So, we can see I have the x-axis this
way. I'm just going to come in here and
manually adjust this bone. So, CtrlR.
I'll just make sure that this X-axis is
pointing in the right direction. So,
Ctrl R is shortcut to change the bone
row or you can change it from up here
depending on what you want to do. Ctrl
R. I'm just going to use shortcut and
I'll place this one right here. And I'll
just place this one. So, this is the way
that the finger is supposed to roll on
that X-axis. And just make sure that
this looks good for all the fingers. So
I'm going to come in here finger. Ctrl R
to
roll that bone. And then this one is a
little bit off. Ctrl R. I can roll this
one. Control R. I can also roll this
one. And then Ctrl R. I can also roll
this one. This one is looking a bit off.
Ctrl R. We can roll this one. Ctrl R. We
can roll this one also right here. I'm
also going to make sure I do the same
thing right here. Okay. I'll take a look
at it from here. Ctrl R we can roll this
one. Ctrl R we can roll and then also
roll this one. Okay. So that is the bone
roll problem fixed. We can turn off this
axis in the view port. Okay. But that
was still going to fix our problem
because remember when we're positioning
the knee and I told you that you should
leave a bend a slice bend right here.
Okay. So let me show you what's
happening here. If you take a look at
the finger bones right now something
like this is happening. So we have this.
Then we have this and we have this. So
blend this we want to rotate the arm
this way or we want to rotate the finger
this way. So that's what is causing the
finger to call that way instead of the
correct way. So to avoid this, the best
way that I found to do this is just to
select this finger bones and then we
want to scale them on the x-axis on the
normal x-axis. Okay. So right here I'm
going to come up here to the transform
orientations and I'm going to choose the
normal. So what it's going to do what
going to do is going to use this axis of
this bone. So I'll make sure that this
one is my active object and I also
switch my pivot point to the active
element so that we using the axis of
this object to scale this down. Okay, in
this case, before you do this, make sure
snapping is turned off if it is turned
on. And then S and X and zero. So that's
going to straighten out the finger so
that Blender doesn't call it in any
direction that we don't want it to call
it in. So I'm going to rotate this one.
I just place that back in the middle of
the finger. So R and Z in this case now
just to rotate it on the Z axis and
place that back in the middle. I'm going
to do the same thing here. Make sure
that this one is the active object. Then
S and X and Z. Okay. And then we can
rotate that one. Place it correctly.
I'll do the same thing here. S X and Z.
And also S X on this one. X X and Z. And
just rotate that to make sure that still
in the middle of the finger. Okay. I
also do the same thing on the thumb
right here. And just select this one.
And I make sure that this is my active
object. S X and Z. Okay. And you can
rotate this one on the Z axis. And then
also I'm going to scale this on the Z
axis too. So both on the X and on the Z
axis. So S make sure that this object is
your active object. This bone here is
your active object. And then S Z and
zero. Okay. So you can see if you rotate
this now, this is probably if we
generated this rig, this was probably
going to rotate upward since this bone
is pointing up. So, let's just make sure
to S Z and Z. Then I'll do the same
thing right here. SZ and Z.
Also, the same thing right here. SZ and
Z. And then SZ and Z. And also right
here, SZ and Z. And then I can rotate
this one on the X-axis. Just make sure
that it's still in the middle right
there. So now we still want to give this
a little bit of bend so that Blender
knows actually the position we want this
to call in. So, I'm going to select
these ones right here. And if you use
the gizmos, I'm just going to change my
median points back to I'm going to
change my pivot point back to median
point. And then I can raise this one up
so that Blender knows that we want to
call it in this way. I'm also going to
select these ones right here. And then G
and Z. Give them just give them just a
tiny bit of just move tiny bit up so
Blender knows I want to rotate it in
towards the palm. Okay. Also do the same
thing right here. I'll select this one,
this bone right here. G and Z. And also
the same thing right here. G and Z.
Move this off slightly. And I can also
select this one. Move this one down.
Also just select these ones.
And then G and Z. I can move them down.
Okay. Now we have something that looks
like this. Now let's go ahead and let's
regenerate this week. And hopefully that
gives us something that looks good. So,
let's go back in subject mode and then
we can regenerate this rig right here.
And let's give that a few seconds to
load. And you're going to already notice
that these controls are looking a lot
better than what we had before. So,
let's go into pose mode into control
tab. And then S, we can scale this down.
And now everything is working just
right. I'm going to to clear the poses.
You can press Alt R to clear any
rotation. Alt D to clear any location
changes that you might have made on any
of the bones and then alt S to clear the
scale. Okay. So that shortcuts those
shortcuts are going to be important. Alt
R of G and alt S. So I can just select
all these ones. When we are working with
bones we want to be working with these
bones in their local space. So so far
when we modeled everything we're working
in the global X axis. So that's this
axis right here. Z is going up, Y going
back and X going to the right side. So
on these bones, if you remember, we had
individual
um axis for these bones. So we want to
make sure that we are working on it
local axis. So when you're working
bones, you want you want to work on the
local axis right here. Okay. So with
that in place and then also the pivot
point, you want to change this to origin
to individual origins. Okay. So now if
we scale this in, we have the fingers
working just nicely. I'm just going to
hide the meta here. We don't see that
one for now. And we can rotate this on
the X-axis.
Scale this in even more. And can just
test out the ridge and see what we have.
So I'm going to rotate this fist, this
palm bone right here. And can scale this
one in. Then also the same thing right
here. You can just test out the bones.
Make sure that everything is working
just nicely. Okay. So, I'm going to
clear all the poses with Alt R, Al G,
and alt S. And let's test out some of
this. So, I'm going to rotate this.
Okay. Everything seems to be looking
good on the head. I'm going to Ctrl R.
I'm going to select this one and R to
open up the mouth right there. Okay. The
mouth is looking good. Let's test the
controls around the mouth. You can bring
this up. Okay. make the character smile
a little bit. I'm going to clear the
poses there. And for the most part, the
automatic weights are going to do a
really nice job of with fitting our
character and telling which bone which
of the part of the character should
follow it. So the automatic does a nice
job in that sense. The areas I might
need to fix a little bit with painting
are the eyes. So I've not tested this
out, but let's check this out. G and Y.
Let's move this in. Okay. And you can
see that W or the way that that is
deforming is not exactly what we want.
Okay. You can try to just keep tweaking
this the way you want it to be. So,
we're going to need to play around with
the W painting on the width on the bones
of the eyelids right here. And also
something I want to show you just before
we move further, I'm going to come down
here to the render properties. Something
that we are going to experience a lot
especially with the rigs when we have a
lot of subdivision is a little bit of
lag because we are going to be adding
all these objects to the rig and we are
most of these objects have solution
surface modifiers. So that's going to
cause the rig to slow down a little bit.
So in Blender we have this nice option
here to simplify our scene. And when we
simplify as in it's going to move all
the subdivisions down to so we can set
it here that the max of division to be
set to zero. So right here I'm just
going to change it to zero and I'm going
to check simplify right here. So I'm
going to check that simplifier here.
Something I like to do with this
simplifier just right click and add it
to right. So I can easily when we're in
pose mode posing our character we can
just easily toggle it on and off from
there. So in this case I'm going to
leave it turned on. Okay. And I'm just
going to G and Y. We can see what we
have there. Also something I can do
here. We can turn on this X mirror here.
So that whatever I do on the left side
also going to mirror on the right side.
So I just close both eyes this way.
Okay.
D and Y. I'll close it this way. And the
way we are going to fix this W is in the
width painting mode. Okay. So I'm going
to go back into object mode. I'm going
to select our character and let's go
into the W p. So control tab to bring up
the spy menu. And I can go to the waist
painting mode or you can come here and
you can go to the waist painting mode.
I'm just going to use control tab and
I'll go into the waist painting mode to
see the weights around the leads. So I
know that those bones around the leads
are called leads. So I'm going to go to
the object properties. You're going to
see all the vertx groups that you added
in when we printed the rig to our
character. So we can just come down
here. Just press this little button down
here. It's going to bring up this search
menu and we can search for the lead
bones right here. So you're going to see
the lead.b.l. You can just scroll
through those ones. So the leadbottoml
the bottom bones are not really my
problem for now. Let's take a look at
the top bones at the lead t. L. Okay.
And I also come up here and make sure
xomemetry is turned on. Okay. And an
option I want to enable is the
autoormalize option right here. I'm just
going to illustrate what the bone does,
what that option does. So, if I come
here and I just move, there's also an
issue here up here. If I move this,
you're going to notice that the brows
are moving a little bit too much of the
head and we don't necessarily want that.
So, I'm going to go back into object.
I'll go back into weight on the body.
I'll search for the headbone. And I know
that that headbone is the spline.
So I want this PL O6 to control this
part of the head. I don't want the brows
to control that part of the head. The
brows right now have too much influence
over this part of the head. With this
normalize option turned on, what that is
going to do if I just come in here and I
paint in with I'm painting this
completely red and red means that this
bone that the spinal 01 has a 100%
influence over the faces I'm painting.
So for any other bone that had influence
over that area, the auto normaliz is
going to remove those bones from these
faces. Okay. So right here, so the brow
has a little bit of influence over these
areas. I'm just going to come in here
and I'm going to paint in those bits
right here so that the brows don't have
any influence over these areas right
here. I can just further bring this
somewhere around here.
We're going to paint this 100% so that
this part of our character is controlled
just by the head which is fine. 06. So
I'm just going to paint in some of these
areas. I'll make sure to be careful not
to paint in the ears. I'm just going to
come in here. I'm going to paint in till
I get to somewhere around here.
Somewhere around here should be fine.
Then I'm going to paint all of these in.
So all these parts are red is 100%
controlled by the spine bone. other part
is controlling those bones. So we can
see that we have fixed up the shape
right there of the head. You can paint
this even more. Just paint this to
somewhere around here. Okay. And now
that browse is working as intended. I'm
going to just go into edit mode and I'm
going to clear the location changes on
that one. Alt G to clear the location
changes. Okay. And now that's no longer
affecting the top of the head as much.
Okay. Now I'm going to go back to the
eyelids on the weight paint for the
eyelids. Let's go back to the leads.
Here I'm just going to search for leads.
And we want to do with the lead tail.
So weight painting is I find that it's
kind of a guessing game. You don't
really know. You might not really know
which bone is supposed to control which
part of the character. So you're just
going to go in and we're going to guess
where the influence of these bones are
supposed to be. Just I like to do I'm
going to be using a graphics tablet for
this. I'm going to turn on pressure
sensitivity and for this lead TL I'm
going to come here and I'm just going to
add in some more widths and see if
that's going to give us the shape that
we want for the eyelids. Okay, I'll add
in some bones, some more influence right
here. Okay, something like that's
looking good. I'm going to add in just
I'm just slightly pressing with my
graphics tablet and I'm going to you can
hold down shift to smooth out the
weights also.
Okay, so we have something that looks
like that. That's not looking too bad.
I'm going to go back into the solid
mode. Okay, and I'll just turn off
overlays there. And I made a mistake
here. I'm going to Ctrl Z. And I'll
scroll down here to this lead TL.
And we can add in weight to this side.
Okay, that start give us more what we
want. You can see right now that I'm
painting bottom lids. So I don't want to
do that. I'm going to go into edit mode
and I'll just select just the faces I
want to be able to paint over. I'll
select just this one and then Ctrl + to
select more faces like that. I can
deselect these ones. So just these
pieces is fine. I'll go back into the
waist paint mode and I'll turn on this
paint max option right there just so I
don't affect the lower eyelids. Then I'm
going to come in here and paint in more
weights until that start to look good.
And then I can also hold down shift and
smooth out the weights right there. I'm
going to come to the lead t2.
I can add in more weights here. I'm just
adding in some more weights. And that's
looking good. starting to ditch shape a
little bit. I'm going to come here to
this one and add in. Let's see if adding
in is going to help us there. To
subtract, you can hold down control and
then you can subtract these weights.
Okay, so hold down control and it's
going to subtract it. I'm just going to
hold down shift to blur this out. I'm
going to add in some more here and see
how that's looking.
Okay, so something like this is looking
good for the weight painting. So you can
definitely go in and adjust the width.
So right here for the brows, I know that
the brows sometimes are affecting the
eyelids a little bit too much than they
should. So I'm going to remove these
ones from the influence. Also the same
thing here. So I'm just holding down
control. I'm removing this vert from the
influence of the brows. I can just
smooth out these ones. I'm going to get
rid of the paint marks for now.
And then also the same thing here. You
might not want it to control the eyes as
as much. Okay. And then also the same
thing right here.
And the same thing right here. Okay. So,
you can go in and definitely get the
shape of the eyelids looking right. But
for my use case, I want a specific eye
shape for when the eye closes. And
that's I'm not going to really get with
W painting. You can see I'm not going to
bother just going and wasting. I want to
be able to control the shape of the
eyelids. And the way I'm going to do
this is with a shape key. And this
something I call a corrective shape key.
So I'm going to add in a shape key so
that anytime we close this eye. So when
this eye is not posted, the shape is
off. But once I come down here to close
the eyelids somewhere around here, that
shape key is going to be on and the
eyelids are going to be looking tight
and closed. So I'm going to just alt G
to clear the location here. Alt G. And
then I'll just close this. And I'll make
sure to keep in mind the position of
this transform right here. So right here
I'm just going to make this a whole
number. So, or more of an whole number
minus 0.024
is what I'm going to use. I'll make sure
to keep that number in mind. Very
important. You want to make sure to keep
that number in mind. Okay. So, we have
something that looks like this on our
character. I'm going to select this and
we are going to create a shape key.
We're going to come down here to the
object properties. Come down here.
Create a new shape key. This is going to
this first key that Blender has is the
basic shape key. And this is our
original shape key. So we don't want to
touch this one. Every other shape key
that we add from here is going to be
based off this one. So this our original
mesh, we don't want to touch that. Let's
add in a new shape key right there. If
you're in previous versions of Blender,
Blender 4.5, I believe, and below. Your
shape key is going to be set to zero.
In Blender 5 is set to one by default.
So just set this to one. And if you're
still using Blender 4.5, you can upgrade
at this point to Blender 5.
Okay, so the shape is going to be at
one. And we can just name this I
close.
Okay, I close should be fine. And with
this, I can select this and go into
sculpt mode. And now we can sculpt this
actually into the shape that we want for
this eye close. So what I'm going to do
here, I'm going to mask out the bottom
for now. Shift A. I don't really want I
think the bottom of the eyelids. So,
shift A to just grow out a mask. So,
something like this.
I'll grow out that right here too. So,
just press shift A and going to grow out
a max from where your cursor is.
Okay. So, something like this. I don't
want to affect the bottom or the bottom
lids. So, I'm going to go in with the
grab brush and I'm going to put this
eyelid in more of the shape that I would
want the eyelid to close in. So,
something like this. At this point, we
can turn back on subdivisions of it. So,
I'm going to uncheck simplify here. And
then I'm going to go into and something
something I want to do is to make sure
that when we bind our character, we want
our amateur modifier to be at the top
right here. So, first of all, we going
to deform before we subdivide. So, make
sure that that's in place. So, I'm going
to go back into sculpt to keep on
sculpting this shift key. So, I'm going
to use the grabr brush. I can bring this
one down in here. Okay. And I'll just
adjust this until I start liking the
shape or what the eye close is looking
like. Okay. I'm going to bring this down
here.
Okay. Something like that. I can toggle
over this to see what that looks like.
And I just make sure that when the eye
closes
that this bulging out just a tiny bit.
Okay. Something that looks like that.
I'm going to turn off subdivision. I
just play around with the shapes of
this.
Okay. So, something like this is going
to look good. You can further adjust
this if you need to. Something like this
is going to look good in my case. You
can further adjust it and refine it to
the shape that you want it to be. I'm
going to turn on turn off simplify.
Okay. So, a shape key like this is going
to be actually Let me just adjust this a
little bit more. I'm going to use the
grab brush and just push this in like
this
and also like this.
Okay. So, something more like this looks
better in my case. You can definitely
adjust this a lot more. I'm going to
adjust this after now. So, this is
looking good for the shape key. Let's
say we're happy with this shape key.
Okay. So now we are going to tell this
bone remember this bone the lead let's
also keep the name of the bone in mind
the lead t2
whenever it comes to the position of the
y location of minus0.024
we that is when we want the shift key to
be activated. So right now if I move
this back you're going to notice that
the shift key is still activated even
while it's at this point. So that's not
what we want. So, what we going to use
to control that shape key right here is
a driver. And if you've never used
drivers at this point, I showed you how
to use this with the hair, but this one
is going to get a little bit more
complicated. So, just follow me step by
step at this point. So, right click and
we're going to add a driver.
On this driver, we are going to change
the type here from scripted expression
to average value. Okay. And our object
that we want to control the shape key is
going to be the ridge.
Okay, I'll just search for ridge. And
then the bone inside of our ridge is
going to be the lead
t2.
So that was the bone we kept in mind the
other time. So select that bone and when
we're working remember that we're
working with this we're working with the
y location. Okay.
working remember that we are working in
the local space. So just select the
local space right here. Okay, I can
press update dependencies. Okay, so let
me escape out of that and let's see what
we have right here. If I select this G
and Y. Okay, that's sort of working. I
can see that the shape key is still
activated. Elizabeth, Alt G, you're
going to notice that the shape key is
still activated. I want to go in and
tell the shape key to be activated once
we get to that position right here. So
I'm just going to Ctrl + Z. Okay, you
can see that the shape key is not
activated here once we get to that
position. So let me just make sure that
it's another that it is in that
position. Okay, so Ctrl Z. Let me just
make sure I didn't mess anything up.
Okay, so I'm going to select the
character. I'm going to right click and
we're going to edit the driver to bring
this back up. And we are going to select
this menu here that says show in driver
editor.
Okay, so we have this very confusing
graph. So that even I don't know what's
completely what this is. So just follow
the steps here. So at this point is when
our shape key is at zero and when our
bone is still at the rest position. But
this point here is when our shape key is
at one and when the location of the bone
is at minus0.024.
Okay. So to make sure that we have that,
come here to f curve and this key frame
is what we're going to change. We're
going to change that to the location to
the y location of the bone. So just type
in minus 0.0224
or whichever value that you had for your
own character and then enter. Okay. And
you're going to see that something
changed right there. Now this is working
correctly. Okay. Then something I like
to do, I just select this bone right
here or this key frame and select that
one. I'll just change this to linear.
And then also
the same thing here. I'll select the
bone. I'll change this one to linear.
And that's all that we need to set up
here. You can close out of this. So I'm
going to come in here. Ctrl tab. And if
you notice now when the bone is at its
first position, so alt g to clear the
location, the shape key is not active.
And if I come down here to G and Y, once
it gets to that point, it's going to
become active. The shape key is going to
be completely active. Just like that.
Okay, so that is exactly what we want.
I'm going to alt G to clear this. And
I'm just going to turn off this X mirror
here. And you're going to notice a
problem that we have. to G and Y. If I
move this down, you're going to see that
this affecting the right side of the
eye. So remember that that shift key
that we made was for both eyes. We
sculpting on both eyes. So right here
when we are closing on this eye is also
closing on this eye. So we need to tell
the shape key just stay on the left
side. And we're going to create a new
shape key and we're going to tell that
one just to be on the right side. The
way we are going to do that is again
with groups. I'm going to clear the
search selection there and I'm going to
create a new vertx group. I'm going to
create two new vertx groups. This one
I'm going to call it left
side and this other one I'm going to
call it right
side. So I'm going to select this one.
I'll go into edit mode and we are going
to select just the left side of our
character. So I'm going to select the
left side of the character. Okay. I'll
make sure not to encroach into the right
side. Okay. I'll deselect these ones
right here. Okay. And we don't really
want to select the middle. So I going to
better selection here and control minus
so that we don't select the middle. We
just want to select the absolute left
side of the character. And then with a
width set to one, I'm going to
completely assign this. Make sure the
weight here is set to one. And then we
can assign that. And then we are going
to I'm going to Ctrl I to invert the
selection. Ctrl minus to remove the
middle. And with a weight set to one,
I'm going to assign the right side right
there. And then for this middle, I can
assign it to the left to the left and
right side at a weight of.5. So 0.5 for
the right side and then.5 for the left
side. If you go into weight, you're
going to see what this looks like right
here. Okay. So that's good. Now I'm
going to come back to the shape key
right here and I'm just going to rename
this on to I do I close L and where it
says vertx groups down here. I'm going
to search for the left. So this is going
to work only for the left side. So now
if I come in here and I move that you're
going to see that's no longer affecting
the right side. Nice. That's exactly
what we want. I'm going to select this.
I want to duplicate this shape key for
the right side. So I'm going to come in
here. I'm going to duplicate the shape
key. The difference on this one is that
we're going to choose the right side
shape key here. So right side I'm just
going to rename this properly. I'll
erase this and this is going to be I
close_r.
Now we need to add the same driver here
to this one. You can go through the
whole process once again if you want to
practice. But we can just right click,
copy the driver, and right click here
and then paste the driver to this second
one. But we need to edit the driver
because right now the driver that we
copied is still using this left control.
So I'm going to right click, edit the
driver, and we're going to change this
from lead.t.l to lead.tr2.
So that one right there. And you can
press update dependencies. And now if we
go into our rig and we move this down.
Now that should be working perfectly.
Okay. So this is exactly what we want
for the eye. So instead of relying on
width painting that's another thing that
you can do. So you can do this for
different parts like every part on your
character. You can go in I can add in
corrective shift keys just like this.
But that's just it for the eye. So you
can come here play around with these
controls for the body. And for the most
part that's the width of the body done.
Now let's add some other objects to our
ridge. So, I'm going to start off with
the eyes right here. For the eyes, I'm
going to go back into object mode. I'm
going to select the eyes, and I'll just
press period on the numpad here to
navigate to those objects. And I'll also
select the eyeball object, too. So, make
sure that those two objects are
selected. I'm going to select our rig
and ctrl P. Instead of doing automatic
weights, we are going to parent this
with empty groups. So, what empty groups
is going to do, just like the way he
added in vertx groups for all these
different deformation bones, it's also
going to add in vertx groups for all the
deformation bones on the eye. But the
only difference being that it's not
going to actually assign any weights.
So, Ctrl P and we're going to assign
with empty groups. And the reason that
we don't want to assign with automatic
weights. So, right here we have the
temple bone on this met. So the temple
could potentially affect the eyeball and
we don't want that. So we are just going
to go in and we are going to manually
assign the different vertices to the eye
directly to the eye. So let's just
select just the eyebones or just the eye
objects and then the rig and ctrl P and
then parent this with empty groups.
Okay, that's looking good. And I'm going
to select the eye right here. And I'm
going to if you come here on the ridge,
you're going to see that the eye is not
moving. Let me just toggle wireframes.
You're going to notice that the eye is
not moving even though we have printed
it. So on the corner objects right here.
I'm going to select this one and I'm
going to search for the eye and this is
the left eye. So I'm going to select
this one and I'm going to assign this
with a width of one. Make sure the width
is set to one here. And then we're going
to assign that corner object. Okay. Now,
if I go back into the rig, you're going
to notice that the eyeball now is
moving. So, let's do the same thing for
this other corner object here. I'm going
to go into edit mode, select everything,
and then I'm going to assign this. This
one is the right side of the eye. So, I
do R. I'm going to assign this.
Okay. And I'm going to go back into
object mode. I'm just going to hide the
corner. And then I'm going to select the
eyeballs. I'm going to assign these ones
too. Okay. And I'll assign this one to
the right side of the eye. We can al to
unhide that. And we can rotate this. And
now the eye should be working just
properly. Let me go into material
preview mode and see what this is
looking like. So I'm just going to
rotate the eyes. Okay. I'll make sure I
just rotate this control. Just only this
control here. And you can see that the
eyes are working well and the eyelids
are following them just like the way you
would for a normal human character.
Okay, so that's getting heavy in the
material preview mode. I'm going to come
back to the solid mode. Now the eyes are
working properly. Now let's take a look
at the teeth and the tongue. So right
now if I rotate the mouth, you can see
that the teeth tongue is not moving. So,
I'm going to just
clear the location and rotation there.
I'm going to select this one, hide it,
and then I'm going to select the jaw,
the inside of the mouth. I'm going to
select our rig. Ctrl P. And we are going
to do the same thing I did for the eyes.
Again, we are going to print this with
empty groups. Okay? For the same reason
that we did for this other one. So, we
don't want parts like the nose to affect
the teeth. So, let's just print it with
empty groups. And then we can go into
edit mode. I'm going to select the top
teeth here.
Select this ones right here. Ctrl L.
Select the top teeth. And I can search
for the tits
vertex group here. And this one is T. T.
So this is the top of the teeth. I'll
make sure to assign that with a weight
of one. Okay. I'll select the tongue
here. Ctrl I. Just so I can select just
the lower teeth. And then for this one,
I'm going to come in here and I'm going
to assign that to the bottom teeth. So
for tongue is a little bit different. So
for the teeth, we just had one bone
controlling the teeth right here. But
for the tongue, we have these three
bones. Okay. So we need to select those
deformation bones and tell them to
assign with just wait for those three
tongue bones. Okay. So the way we're
going to do this, I'm going to come down
here to the update data properties under
the bone collections. I'm going to
scroll down here.
Let me just increase the size of this.
We can hide all these other collections,
all these other bone collections just so
that we don't get confused. Just hide
all of them for now. And we want to
unhide the deformation bones. Okay. So,
I'm going to select these tongue
deformation bones. These three right
here. Select just those ones. Make sure
it's only those three deformation bones
that are selected there. And then I'm
going to go back into object mode. We
are going to select our rig. And we're
going to select the tongue. And we're
going to go into weight pins mode right
here. And for this weights, we're going
to see weights and we're going to assign
automatic from bones. So this is just
the same thing like assigning with
automatic weight. The only difference
here is that it's going to assign to the
selected bones right now. So it's going
to
not look at any other bones and it's
just going to assign to just the bones
that we selected. So go up here and then
we can assign from bones right there.
And now if we go back into this object
into width paint and I just search for
the tongue bones here. Let just search
for tongue.
Okay, you're going to see that that
assigned.
Okay, that assign width to each part of
the tongue. Okay, now on this we can
hide this deformation bone back and then
we can unhide all these other ones. I'm
going to unhide until I get the root
bone. You can leave this other three
hidden. Okay. So now if I go back into
the rig and I play around with the
tongue bones, the control bones for the
tongue. You can see how that is moving
nicely. So if I just unhide our
character slash to bring that back and
then we can rotate this. And now you
notice that the teeth and the tongue is
moving properly. And you can start to
see what this is looking like. So you
can pose the tongue anyh how you want
to. Okay, completely up to you how you
want to use the tongue. Okay, so we have
the eyes right here working just fine.
Now let's go ahead and let's parent the
scalps. So we don't want to pre the c
object. We want to pre the scalps. So
I'm going to come in here. I'm just
going to bring these ones down. Toggle
those ones down. And then for the scalps
I'm going to unhide all of them for now.
I'm going to select all the scalp
objects.
Okay, make sure that's all of them
selected. So, the lashes, the brow, the
hair, the ponytail in my case. Then I'm
going to select the ridge, Ctrl P. And
we're going to assign with empty groups.
Okay. So, assign with empty groups. And
then let's start off with the main hair
right here. So, I'm going to start with
the main hair, which is this one. I'm
going to go into edit mode, and I'm just
going to assign all these verses to the
main headbone, which is the spine. O6.
I'm going to search for spine here and
I'm just going to parent it to spine.6
and I'm going to assign those ones right
here. Now, if I go back on my rig and I
move the rig, you're going to see that
the head or the hair is moving along.
Okay, that's exactly what we want. And
then for these eyebrow wounds right
here, we can copy the width from the
body onto the eyebrows of the eyelashes.
So we can select the body and then I'm
going to come here. I'm going to select
the brow right here. And then I'm just
going to copy the width from the body to
the brows. Okay. So this is in case you
did weight painting around the brows.
You just want to copy the exact same
weight from the body to the brows. So
I'm going to go into the width paint
mode. Make sure that the brow scalp is
the active object. And I'm going to come
up here to width and we're going to
transfer the widths. Okay. We're going
to change some options here. The one
that works best is the nearest face
interpolated. And we want to transfer
all our layers. So I'm going to change
this to by name. Okay. That's going to
transfer all the layers that we have.
Okay. So now if we go into pose mode, we
can pose start posing the brows. Okay.
You're going to see that this is getting
slow a little bit and that's just
because of the hair. We have a lot of
hair going on right now. So it's going
to get slow. So I'm going to hide the
hair in a little bit. But I'm also going
to do the same for the lashes scalp
here. So I'm going to select the body
and then I'm going to select the lashes
scalp and then I'm going to go into
weight f and then weights we are going
to transfer the weights right here and
it should retain the same options that
we had from last time. So I'm going to
close this and then let's test this one
out. So G and Y that is closing
beautifully. Okay. So we have something
that looks like that. All right. And
then for the ponytail scalp here in my
case, I'm just going to select that
ponytail scalp. I'm going to go into
edit mode and I'm just going to assign
this one to the headbone. So this is not
going to be deforming really much. So
I'm just going to assign it completely
to the headbone. So assign so that we
have that. And if I go into pose mode
now, now the head is moving just like
so. Okay. Now that is for the head. We
can I can do the same thing for the hair
band right here. I'm going to select
this one. Select the ridge. Ctrl P and
we can assign with empty groups. And now
I'm going to come here on the hair band
and I'm going to just assign this one
completely to the head since it doesn't
need to deform. Going to assign that one
completely to the head. Assign. Then
I'll go back into the pose mode. Make
sure that that's working. Okay, we can
rotate that and make sure that that's
working right there. Okay. And that's
for the head. I'm just going to move
this around and see the things that we
have not yet printed to the ridge. So we
have now printed the clothes, the skirt,
the shirt, the skirt, the necklace, and
the shoes. So let's go ahead and do the
shirt. For the shirt, I'm going to
select the shirt. Also select the empty
or sorry, select the rig. Ctrl P. And
then we are going to parent with empty
groups. And we're just going to transfer
our weight from the body to the clothes.
Okay. So I'm going to select the body
first and then the clothes. And then we
can come up here, go into weight paint
mode, weights, and then we're going to
transfer all our weights. And it should
still have the same option. So that
should be working just fine. Let's test
this out. See how this is working. I'm
also going to turn on simplify in our
case here just so that we can stop using
this subdivisions. So this is working
fine. I'm going to come in here. Okay,
I'm going to go back in subject mode.
I'm going to select this one. And
remember that we have this control here.
So I'm just going to take this down to a
low value of 0.02. 02 just so that the
hair is not too much. Okay, still
manageable. I'm just going to hide all
the hair scalps. You don't need to see
those ones. Okay, so this is the shirt.
The shirt is deforming nicely. I like
how that is deforming. Okay, now for the
shoes and for the skirt, we are going to
do something a little bit different
right here. So, the shoe has a lot of
different parts. And if we came in or if
we come in and we select this one and we
also select the rectr P and we print
that we automatic we might get some bad
results or some results that might not
deform well also because these are
separate parts. So the sole is separate
from these other parts. So the best way
that I found to do this is to use
another object as a deformer.
Okay. So this object I'm going to shift
A and I'm just going we're just going to
model in a new object. I'm going to add
in a cube right here. I'll just move alt
G to clear the relation and I'll take my
3D console back to the world origin.
Okay. So this cube I'm going to name it.
So I want this one to deform the shoe.
I'm going to Ctrl F2 to rename this. I'm
going to Ctrl C to copy the name from
this. Alt H to unhide that. Then I'm
going to copy the name from here. And
this is going to be called geo
jenny shoe_ri
helper. So this is going to help our rig
to form the shoe. Okay. And I'll make
sure that this that this is in the chenn
rig. And also in that ch I'm going to
create a new collection. So you just
select under collection and press C to
create a new collection. And right here,
I'm going to name this ch jenny rig
helpers. Okay, so we're going to have a
couple of objects inside of this object.
So this one, I'm going to move it right
into there. Okay, so this is going to be
a helper object. Something that's going
to help the rig deform our objects
correctly. I'm going to go into edit
mode here. I'm going to scale all of
this down. And I'm just going to model a
very simple shape for the shoe.
something that's going to be a proxy for
the shoe. So, I'll just using very basic
modeling. I'll place this right here.
And we can place this right here and
move this one to the side. And I'll
bring this one back. Or I can just bring
this one up here. And then extrude this
one to the on the Y axis. I can move
this one on the Y axis. And also bring
this one here. Ctrl R. I'm going to add
in a local right there. And I'm going to
bend this to fit the shape of the shoe.
And then Ctrl R. I can add in let's say
two loop cuts right there. And then I'm
going to select these ones. And make
sure to select these ones right here.
And then S and X. I'm going to scale
this one down. And from right here I can
select this one. And I can just select
that face. Extrude it up.
And S and X. I'm going to scale this.
Move this this way. And I'm also just
going to rotate it, scale it, something
like this. Okay, I'm going to add in
some more loop cuts. I can add in three
loop cuts right there. I can also add in
a loop cut on the side here. And I can
select these loops here, S and X to
scale them down. And also the same thing
here, S and X. I'm going to scale this
one down. I can add in a loop at the
middle here. S and Y, I can scale this
one up. Okay, something like this. I'm
going to select the bottom here. So you
can model this in any way that you want
to. As far as it works for your objects
and it envelopes the whole object,
that's completely fine. I'm going to add
in some more loop cords right here.
And also some more loop cuts right here.
And also some more loop cuts right here.
I'm going to go into sculpt mode. I'm
just going to smooth out all of this
just to smooth out the shape a little
bit. I also smooth out these areas right
here. I'll make sure that it's not
clipping through the shoe.
Okay. So, I have something that looks
like this. So, something that just
envelopes the whole shoe. I can smooth
out these areas right here. Also, smooth
out right here. Smooth out right here.
Just make sure that it engulfves the
whole shoe is exactly what we want right
here. You can clean up the shape to look
a little bit better or a lot better than
what I have. And then I'm going to hold
down shift and zoom this all of this
out.
Okay. And now we have something that
looks like this for the rig helper of
the shoe. I'm just going to come in
here. I'm going to select these ones S
and zero to scale them down. And I'm
going to move them down right here. Then
I'm going to add another loop code right
here. So this is a rig helper. And on
this rig helper, I'm going to mirror
this over to the other side. We can use
the M modifier on this one. Okay. On
this rig helper, we are going to
actually parent this one to our rig. So,
Ctrl P. And we can do this one with
automatic PS or you can do it with empty
groups and copy the groups from the body
to the shoe. But this one is fine. I'm
just going to use automatic PS. And now
this shoe object is going to be the one
deforming. Okay, let's display this
object in another view. So, I'm going to
come here to object properties and I'm
going to come down here to view display.
Another way it says display as. We're
going to change it from display as
textured to display as wired. Okay, just
so that we can see the boots underneath.
So
that rig helper is what is deforming
now. So what we are going to do, I'm
going to select the boots and on this
one we are still going to parent it to
the rig. So I'm going to select the
boots the rig ctrl P and I'm just going
to do this with empty groups and I'll
leave those groups empty. Okay. And I'm
just going to move the amateur above the
subdivision surface modifier. And we're
going to add in one more modifier that's
going to make everything work well. And
that's going to be the surface deform
modifier right here. So adding the
surface deform modifier. I'm also going
to move this above the subdivision
surface modifier. And this subdivision
surface modifier is going to tell the
shoe to follow the deformation of this
rig helper right here. So, I'm going to
select the target object as the rig
helper. And right now, I'm going to make
sure to turn on simplify so that we are
at the lowest level of subdivision
before binding in the surface deform
modifier. If you have the subdivision
turned on at this point, you're going to
get a little error with the surface
deform modifier. So, make sure that
simplify is turned on and that your max
solution is set to zero. Okay. And then
we're going to go ahead and just bind
this one. And now the magic is going to
happen. Let's go into pose mode. And now
if we move our rig, you can see that the
shoe is moving just as if we printed
that to the rig. Okay, let me just G.
Let me test this out. Ooh, that's
looking good. Okay, so we can see how
the shoe is now deforming really nicely.
So if we were to do this with automatic
weights, is definitely not going to give
us this type of nice result. You can try
it out and see what that looks like, but
it's definitely not going to give you
this kind of nice result. So, something
like this is looking definitely looking
much better. Okay, so we can always hide
this one both in the view port and in
the renders. Definitely going to hide it
in the renders. We don't need to see it
in the renders. I'm going to hide it in
the view port, but I'm also going to do
the same thing for the sket right now.
So, I'm going to go in and I'm going to
model in a very simple rig helper for
the sket. I'm going to add in a cube.
Just going to select the SK, copy the
name from here, and I'm going to rename
this one and add rig helper.
Okay, I'll make sure that's in my C3
helper collection. And I'm just going to
go ahead and model a simple proxy object
for this kit.
Oh,
okay. Now I have this nice rig helper
for the skit. And what I'm going to do,
we're going to do the exact same thing.
I'm going to select the rig helper and
then the rig ctrl P. We can assign this
one with automatic bits. And now with
those automatic bits in place. Let me
just move this. You're going to notice
that the rig helper is moving. So I'm
also going to select the sket, select
the rig, and ctrl P. I'm going to assign
this one with empty groups. And then on
the sket I'm going to come in here. I'll
move the amateur above the subdivision.
And we're going to add a surface deform
modifier right there. Move that above
the subdivision surface modifier. I'll
select the sket helper and make sure we
are on the lowest level of subdivision.
Make sure simplify is turned on. And
then we're going to bind this one
together. And now let's see what that is
looking like. Okay. So this is what we
have on the sket. Let me rotate this
one. see what this is looking like.
Okay, that's deforming really, really
nicely. So, this is much better than
what we would have gotten if we used
automatic ways to assign the weights
right here. So, I can see that I have a
little bit of clipping. So, this is
probably because of simplify. Let me see
if I have the clipping right there.
Okay, so there's still clipping when the
leg is being raised up. So something I
might have to do in this case is just to
go in and sculpt the sket. Just push
that out a little bit. If you come and
try to sculpt on the sket, you're going
to notice that nothing is happening, but
something is actually happening. We are
not just seeing it because of this
surface deform modifier. So make sure
that before you're sculpting anything,
you're turning off the surface for
modifier. So I'm just going to Ctrl Z to
undo all those changes. I'm going to
unbind this. And if I need to, I can now
come in here and adjust the sket. And
then I can bind this one back. Okay. So
now we have something that looks like
that. And that's basically it for the
rigging. One final thing I'm going to
show you how to do. So this parts
underneath the body that we are not
going to see. We can actually hide them
so that that way they don't clip through
the clothes and also it's going to help
with performance. So I'm going to go
into edit mode on the body. I'm just
going to select this part of the body
that underneath the clothes that we are
definitely not going to see. Okay, a
selection like this. Just something
rough like this for now. I'm going to
Ctrl + to select more. Then Ctrl minus
to remove some of those parts. Control
shift M to bring my selection over to
the other side. I'll just extend my
selection this way. I can remove these
parts. I want the shoulders to still be
intact. And I'm also going to remove
some of these parts right here. So,
we're just making a selection of what we
don't need to see.
So, I'm going to control remove the
selection from here.
And also remove the selection from right
here.
Okay. So, now we have something that
looks like this. Let take a look at the
bottom here. I'm just going to select
these ones right here. I'll add them to
the selection. Control shift M to mirror
my selection over to the other side. and
at the bottom at the back I'm going to
select these ones too.
Okay. And control shift M to mirror my
selection over to the other side. Okay.
Now we have something that looks like
this. I'll just make sure that we cannot
see any of these through the clothing.
Okay. So for this we are going to assign
this to another vertx group. I'm going
to clear my search here and I'm going to
add in another V group. And this one I'm
going to name mask. And I'm going to
assign those vertes to that max right
there. And I'm going to come here to
modifiers. We're going to add in a mask
modifier. And we are going to choose
that mask group that we just added in.
Right now it's inverted. Let's just make
sure to press this button right here.
And I'm going to move this one above the
subdivision surface modifier. Okay. So
now we have something that looks like
this. So that in case we bend our
character this way, it doesn't really
interfere. that in case we bend the
clothes in weird ways, the body
underneath doesn't interfere. Okay. So,
for the chain right here, I'm going to
do the exact same thing that I did for
the dress or for the skirt right here.
So, I'm just going to add in a proxy
object and I'll parent that and then
just use the surface deform modifier to
make that follow the deformation. But
I'm not going to do that right now. I'm
going to do this after recording this.
Okay. So, this is the rigging done. At
this pose, you can test out at this at
this point you can test out different
poses. The way you can test out
different poses, just go into pose mode
and you can pose. Let's just see. Let me
just hide this for now. You can pose
your character just something like this.
Just play around with these controls.
See what you have. Remember all the
techniques that we talked about posing
in the fundamentals? Make sure to use
those when you're posing. Okay? And
something I recommend is just starting
off with the bare body. So just start
off just p just the bear body. Don't get
worried about the clothes and every
other thing. In this case, you can turn
off the mask modifier in this case. And
then just p the bear body first. If
you're posing, you might need to save
iterations. So what you can do is to
come up here and switch this to your
asset browser. Once it switch to your
asset browser, come up here and go to
the current file. And then under current
file, yeah, just make sure you're on the
current file. You can be in all or
unassigned. And then to save this pose,
I'll make sure I'm in pose mode.
And then assets, you're going to create
a new pose asset. Make sure that this is
in our current file. The library is set
to current file. And you can name the
pose whatever you want to name the pose.
And then you can create the new pose. So
at any point in time, if you come here,
Alt R or G and Alt S to clear
everything. And let's say you want to
start off a new post, you can always
still come back and preview the pose
that you had right there. Okay. So, I'm
just going to clear this. If you want to
see a preview, something I can do here
is to add in a camera. So, we can add in
a camera from right here. And I'm just
going to position this camera. I'll go
into the camera by pressing zero on the
numpad. And I'm going to lock the camera
just by using this pad lock icon right
here. And I'm going to zoom out.
Okay. And now I'm going to select that
pose again. I'll just make the pose
active. I'll double click to make that
pose right there. And we can come here
assets create new pose asset. We can
just rename this to something and then
create that. And then you're going to
see it's going to create a pose preview.
So that can be really useful just to
preview the poses so that you know which
pose is which. So make sure you name
them correctly and make sure you have
previews for each of the poses. So go
around, play around with different
poses. You can play around. I recommend
at least two poses. Just go play around
with two poses so that you can render
out two final poses for your character.
Okay, so just go ahead play around with
the poses, different poses, and also
clean up your rig before you start
playing around the poses. So at this
point, you can go ahead and we can
summarize this chapter. So that's
rigging and posing. That's everything
that needs about rigging and posing.
It's really simple to do. Okay, so
rigging gives your character a skeleton
for the movement of your character and
weight is how you control how the
character is going to deform. So weight
is how we tell which parts or which
bones is going to control which part of
the character and you've learned as we
saw from the fundamentals that good
posing relies on reference exaggeration
and balance to actually look good. So,
make sure that you keep this in mind. If
you need any extra help with anything
that I've seen so far, go ahead and join
the stylish character academy. I'm going
to be holding your hand every step of
the process with the oneonone
mentorship. And if you're loving the
master class so far, you've been able to
create something. Go ahead and leave a
review of this master class on Trust
Pilot. I would love to see your review.
The link is going to be below this
video. And I'll catch you guys in the
last shout out of this video. And I'm
excited to see you guys in the next one.
>> 
>> Welcome to chapter 13. This is the last
and the final chapter of the stylized
character masterass. And if you've
gotten to this chapter so far, kudos to
you. We are going to wrap everything up
with lighting and presenting your
character properly so that all the time
that we have put into working on a
character actually pays off. So this
chapter is going to cover on lighting
and presentation and agenda. First off,
I'm going to introduce you to lighting
and then I'm going to show you the
different light types inside of Blender.
The different way you can use lights
inside of Blender and then I'm going to
walk you through the threepoint lighting
setup. It is a very simple lighting
setup that you can use to light your
characters. I'm going to walk you
through that and then I'm going to touch
a little bit on post-processing. So
taking your raw renders from Blender and
postprocessing them in other softwares
and making them look good. And once we
are done with that, we are going to dive
into Blender and we're actually going to
light and we're going to present your
character inside of Blender. At this
point, if you have not yet shared the
masterass, go ahead and share the master
class right now. Let's tell Mo's create
work that they are proud of. This is
last opportunity you have to share the
master class. So go ahead and share the
master class with someone. And for you
right now, this is definitely the most
important video in the entire master
class. So, make sure you watch the
entire video and do skip any part of
this chapter. All right, let's dive into
it. Introduction to lighting. Why does
your lighting matter? Lighting is one of
the main ways that we drive storytelling
through our character. And the way that
you light your character is going to
determine the mood your audience views
when they see your work. So, I'm willing
to bet that when you saw this image
right here, you felt something and that
because of the way it was lighted, also
the camera angles and also what the
character is doing. So, these are some
things that are going to drive
storytelling and your lighting on top of
that is also going to drive more
storytelling through your character. So,
the way that you light your character is
going to determine the mood that
audience is going to feel when they see
your work. And good lighting can make
your 3D character look 10 times better.
And if you get your lighting wrong, it
can completely ruin everything that
we've done so far. And we definitely
don't want that. Since you have spent a
lot of time working on our character, we
want to make sure we avoid bad lighting.
And that's what I'm going to show you in
this chapter. We want to get really good
lighting so that we can convey the story
on our character 10 times better.
At this stage, we are going to slow down
and be intentional with how we light our
character. So, what makes good lighting?
Good lighting [clears throat] comes down
to just a few simple things. You want to
create the right mood. That's number
one. And then you want to add depth to
your character. And you also want to
control where the viewer is looking.
These are just some criterias that I
like to keep in mind when I'm creating
the lighting. So, first off, let's take
a look at the mood. I'm also willing to
bet that when you took a look at this
picture and also this picture, you felt
something different. So on this picture,
the mood feels more ominous while on
this one, it looks more soft and more
happy. So that's creating the mood just
with the lighting and that's what makes
good lighting. If you can convey the
right mood, then your lighting is good.
And then you can also with lighting, you
should also be adding depth to your
craft. So you should be able to tell
that a character is three dimensional.
This right here is a 3D render. And you
can see the way the lights are conveying
that this character actually has depth.
So there's depth to the character. Also
the same thing here. And also the same
thing here. And you also want to control
where the viewer is looking with the
light. So on this picture here, you're
probably looking at somewhere around the
eyes. On this picture, you're probably
also looking at the eyes. And on this
photo here, we're probably looking
around the face. So those are some of
the things that we can do with lighting.
Just keep these three things in mind.
You want to create the right mood. You
want to make sure that your character
has depth when you light. And then you
also want to control where the viewer is
looking. That's your job when it comes
to lighting. Now we can't talk about
lighting [clears throat]
without also talking about the
composition. The way you frame your
character, your camera angle, the focal
length of your camera, all these things
are going to affect how your lighting
looks. So, it's important to note that
lighting and composition are always
going to work hand in hand because if a
lighting looks good from one camera
angle, it might feel shot from another
angle. So, you just want to keep this in
mind. And I'm going to give you a
lighting and composition cheat code that
you can use. So, the easiest way to get
good lighting and composition is to use
reference. So, so far while working on a
character when we're sculpting, we use
reference. So you're probably already
seen the importance of using reference.
Also in the last chapter when we are
posing, we use reference and it's no
different here. So when we are lighting
and we are making the composition, we
also want to use reference. You can take
a look at images from movies, animation
or anything that you like and use them
as guides. Also the importance of using
reference. You might not naturally know
what good lighting looks like. So from
seeing what has worked in movies or in
films then you can use that on your own
projects and you know that that it
already works. So you can use them for
lighting and composition and composition
guides so that you're not just guessing.
So it's really important that you also
use reference at this stage. Okay. Now
I'm going to walk you through lights in
Blender. First off we have HDRI
lighting. And HDRI stand for high
dynamic range images. And h eyes are
used to provide a 360°
environment lighting. And we can use HR
eyes to fill our scene with natural
light and reflection. That's one of the
main reasons that we use HR eyes. We can
fill our scene with realistic light and
reflection. And with H eyes, you can use
them to light your entire scene. For
some things that you're working on, h
your eyes might be completely enough.
Sometimes if you're working on an
outdoor render, a HRI might be
completely enough. So you can use that
to light your entire scene. But the
downside of using a HR is that you're
limited to whatever the HR gives you. So
this is an example of a HR right here.
And the sun is fixed to this position.
If you wanted the sun to come down or
wanted to move the sun up depending on
what we needed for our scene, it's going
to be a little bit difficult to do that.
So the way I like to use HD eyes is just
use it as ambient lighting and then I
add my own lights on top for more
control and for more flexibility. So
we're just going to use the HI as
ambient lighting. It's not going to be
our main lighting. We are going to add
in other lights so I can have more
control and actually define what we want
for our character. So that's the first
type of light I can use inside of
Blender, a HDRI. Now other types of
lights in Blender we have first of all
we have the point light and a point
light works like a light bulb. It emits
lights in all direction from a single
point. And I'll just dive into Blender
and I'm going to show you how that
works. So shift A. You can come down
here to light and you can add in a
light. So this one here is the point
light. I'm going to add in that one. I'm
just going to move it here and I'll go
into rendered mode. And here with the
light selected, if we come to the object
properties here, we have some settings
that we can play with. So this is where
we're going to adjusting the settings of
the lights from. The one that we're
going to be using the most is the power
setting. So you can adjust the power.
Another way of adjusting the power is
just to right click and then you can
adjust the light power just by going to
your left and to your right. And also
keep in mind that you can take the light
value to a negative value in case that's
what you're going for. So I'm just going
to increase this to somewhere around
here. And the points light is going to
emit light in all directions from where
it's from. So if it was here, it just
work like it just works like a light
bulb. It's going to emit the light in
all directions. And we can see how
that's working right here. So this point
light has its own uses. We are going to
be using this one when we start
lighting. It's one of the lights that
we're going to be using and I'm going to
show you how we are going to use it. So
that's how the point light works. And
then the next light that we have is the
sunlight. And the sunlight is based on
the direction and not the position
inside of Blender. If you're using
sunlight in Blender, the position
doesn't really matter. What matters is
the direction. And it's going to
simulate sunlight and affect the entire
scene evenly. So, I'm going to add in a
sunlight right here. And if I move this
sunlight here, I move it here. You can
see that nothing is really changing. But
if I rotate this and if I change the
direction, that's going to change the
way is affecting the scene. So, the
sunlight is going to be really useful
for outdoor renders. You can also use it
for portrait renders too, but just
depending on what you're going for. I
usually don't use the sunlight if I'm
doing renders for character, but
depending on what you're going for, you
can definitely experiment with it. So,
that's how the sunlight works. And then
other types of light that we have inside
of Blender, we still have the spotlight.
And the spotlight is going to create a
cone of light. And it works just like a
stage light. And it's great for focusing
attention on a specific area. So, let's
add in a sport lights right here. And if
I just move this [clears throat] up and
I adjust the lights power. Let me just
increase this. You can see it's working
just like a stage lights right here. So,
we can once again under the settings, we
can increase the power here. Also, on
our lights, we can change the color for
all our lights depending on what you're
going for. If you want to set the mood,
right, we can change the color here. And
then for the spotlight, we have this
beam shape. So, we can change the angle.
Okay. And you can definitely see what
that's doing. The default is 45. And
then we can also change the blend. If we
change the blend, just notice the
falloff right here. So if I take this
all the way to one, the fall off is
really smooth. But if I change that to
zero is really, really harsh. So you can
play around with that depending on what
you're going for. And then something
else I want to show you, the radius. If
I just increase the radius, you're going
to see the way the shadows become much
more softer. Okay? So on most of this
light, you'll be able to play around
with the radius. If you want harsher
shadows, leave it at zero. But if you
want really soft shadows, then you can
just take the radius up. Something like
this. So that's how the sport light
works. So let me delete that. And let's
go back to the slides. And then finally,
we have the area lights. And an area
lights works just like a soft box. And
it's going to give you a soft
controllable lighting, which makes it
perfect for lighting characters. And
this one is the one that we are mainly
going to be using. So let me just go
into Blender and I'm going to add in
lights. And I'm going to add in an area
light. And if I just bring this up here,
let me also adjust the light power here.
It's just going to create a really nice
and soft light that we can use. This one
is going to be really useful when we are
lighting portrait. So it's not going to
create really harsh shadows. And this
one is going to be useful for lighting
characters. And I'll show you how we are
going to use this once we start setting
up the lighting on our character. So
that's how all the lights work inside of
Blender. So to recap, we have HR
lighting, then we have a point light, we
have the sunlight, we have a sport
light, and then we also have an area
lights. Those are the different types of
lights that we can use inside of
Blender. Now I'm going to walk you
through the threepoint lighting setup.
So right here, these characters were lit
using the three points lighting setup.
So there are many ways that you can go
about lighting your character, but I
want to show you the threepoint lighting
setup is a very simple and reliable
setup that you can use if you're not
exactly sure of how to light your
characters. The threepoint lighting
setup is a very simple and reliable
setup that you can use at all points in
time. Once you understand this, then
it's going to become much easier to
experiment with other lighting types.
So, this threepoint lighting is what
we're going to be using on our
character. But I want you to practice
the threepoint lighting first before you
practice other lighting styles or before
you experiment with other lighting
styles. The threepoint lighting is a
really good starting point before you
experiment with other lighting styles.
And I also suggest that you don't just
stick to the threepoint lighting. Once I
show you how to create the threepoint
lighting setup, then you can definitely
experiment with other lighting styles.
It's going to be very important that
experiment with other lighting styles
cuz as we mentioned earlier, lighting is
going to drive the storytelling. So the
more interesting your light looks, the
more interesting your character or your
artwork is going to be. So you don't
just want to stick to threepoint
lighting. You can deviate from it where
you can. Okay. So threepoint lighting.
Let me walk you through how this
actually works. So as the name implies,
threepoint lighting, we have three
lights. First off, we have the key
light. And the key light is going to be
your main light source. This is going to
be the brightest light and it's going to
define the forms of your character. So
this is what going to create the main
shadows and the main highlight. So right
here on this image, we have just the key
lights turned on. And you can see how
that's creating the forms on the
character by creating the shadows right
here. Okay. So the key light is the
brightest light and it's going to define
the forms of our character. So that's
the job of the key light. And then we
have the fuel light. The f light is
going to sit on the opposite side of the
key light. And the job is to soften the
shadows created by the key light. So
it's going to help you control how dark
or how soft those shadows feel. So let
me just go back here. You can see with
the key light we created these shadows
on the side of the face. So with the few
lights, we are going to add in just
enough light to brighten up those
shadows a little bit. Okay? We don't
want to get rid of the shadows. We just
want to brighten up the shadows a little
bit so that it's not completely dark. So
that's the key light. And then we have
the f light. The next light that we have
is the rim light. And the ring light is
going to sit behind the character and
it's going to create a light outline
around the edges of the character that
is going to separate your character from
the background. So let me just go back
here. You can see the way the character
is blending in with the background.
There's no clear separation between the
character and the background. But once
we add in a rim light, then we start to
see that separation between the
character and the background, which will
just make the character look a lot more
better inside of the environment. So the
threepoint lighting works very well
because this setup is going to balance
the lights and the shadow on our
subject. You're going to get the clear
form. You're going to get clear forms,
controlled contrast, and a strong
separation. A threepoint lighting setup
is simple but also very effective. So,
I'm going to be walking you through how
we're going to use a threepoint lighting
setup. That's the lighting setup we are
going to be using for our character. And
I'm going to walk you through that in a
moment. So, let's take a look at
postprocessing.
What is post-processing? Once we are
done with lighting and rendering, the
final step is post processing. So, this
is where we going to take our raw
renders and we are going to polish it
into a final image. Post-processing is
what's going to make your renders feel
finished. It adds an extra layer of
polish that makes your work stand out.
And at this stage, we're just adding in
stuff like film grain, lens distortion,
chromatic aberration, subtle glow,
vignette, all that kind of stuff that
comes with natural cameras. And these
effects are going to help the image feel
more natural and much more grounded. We
want to make sure that we don't skip
postprocessing cuz just a little bit of
post-processing can really elevate your
image. So, you want to make sure not to
skip this step. And I'm going to show
you just briefly. I'm going to touch on
post-processing very briefly and show
you how I like to approach
post-processing for my renders. All
right. At this stage, we can dive into
lighting and presenting our character.
So, inside of render where we left off
from the last chapter, this was the pose
that I just ended up with. Okay? And
this is the pose from my concept. So, I
have two poses here. I have this one and
I also have this one. So, this one is
just one I'm playing around with, but
this is going to be my main pose right
here. And I'm happy with the way this
one looks. Also, something I want to
show you here. If I come here and I just
unhide the rig helpers on the sket right
here, this rig helper, I added in a
shift key. So, after I pose it, this is
what it looks like. So, you can see it's
not really natural. is not following the
shape of the pose. Also, right here,
there's this bit of clipping. So, I just
added in a shape key to fit the pose
that I created. So, that's also
something you can do. Like we mentioned
in the last chapter, in the fundamentals
of the last chapter, you can use shape
keys to push your pose further. So,
that's an example of what I've done
right here. I also did this for this one
right here. I just added in a shape key
just that it fits our character a little
bit more. So you can do that for any
part of your character that you feel is
lacking. Then you can add in shape keys
to fix up the pose a little bit more.
Okay. So at this stage I'm just going to
turn this off. And also at this stage we
can turn off the rig. We don't really
need to see the rig right now. And we
are going to get started with lighting
and presenting our character. So first
things first, I like to set up a basic
camera angle. So I'm just going to close
this. And we already added in this
camera from the last chapter. But in
case you have not yet added shift A and
then you can add in a camera right here.
To go into the camera view, we can
toggle this icon or you can press numpad
zero. Nad zero is the shortcut right
here. And to be able to adjust or look
through the camera view without going
back into the view port. Make sure that
this icon here is locked. Make sure it's
checked right there. And then you'll be
able to position the camera in the way
you want. Okay. Some things to keep in
mind is the camera resolution. So
depending on what you're rendering out
for, if you're rendering for art
station, you can use a camera resolution
to 1920x 1080. We come out down here to
the output. We can actually change the
resolution. So for this, I know I'm
going to be rendering it out for
Instagram. So most times my resolution
is at 1200 by,500. That's resolution I
like to use because I'm going to be
rendering this out for Instagram. If
you're doing it for a YouTube video,
then you can use 1920 x 1080 or you can
even use something more cinematic
depending on what you're going for. But
1200 by 1500 is what I'm going to be
using. And I'm just going to come in
here and I'm going to choose a camera
angle that I like. This is just a basic
camera angle setup. And if you also
remember in our view port, we changed up
the focal length. So in our camera too,
we can also change the focal length. So
if you go to the object data properties
here, select the camera and go to the
object data properties here. We can also
change the focal length. And for
portrait, the focal length about 80 to
about 90 mm depending on what you're
going for. So you can go past the
standard. You don't have to stick to the
standard since you're in 3D. Just go for
what looks good. And for me, I like to
just go somewhere up here. Okay. And I'm
just going to position my character. So
depending on the character I'm working,
this is always depending on the
character I'm working on, this is always
different. So just test out what is
going to work for you. So an angle like
this.
I'm just going to position this.
Okay, something like this. Yeah,
something like that looks good. And let
me just go into render view. See how
this looks.
Okay. And I'm just going to position it
like this. All right. I like the
position of this. We can obviously come
back and change this. So that is looking
good right now. I'll go back into solid
mode. And what I'm going to do cuz I
always want to see what we are lighting
cuz we're going to start adding in
lights and we want to be seeing it in
the render view. I'm just going to split
up my view port here. I'm going to close
this sidebar. So going to come here,
toggle off overlays and also turn off
gizmos and I'll just go to my camera
view here. I'll make sure just to unlock
this so that I don't mistakenly change
the camera position. And I'll turn that
off once again. Okay. And I'm going to
go into the render view right here. In
the render view, you're going to notice
we already have lights. And when we're
doing the shading and the texturing, we
turned off the scene lights and the
scene world. So right now, if we with
this unchecked, if we add in any lights,
it's not going to affect our character.
So I'm just going to turn this on so
that if we add in lights, it's actually
going to affect our character. And the
scene world right now is using one of
these default HI in Blender. We don't
necessarily want that. We might want to
add our own HI. So I'm just going to
check this. Now it's going to be using
the scene world. All right. Now the
scene world is just this color right
here. And we're going to come back to
this one in a bit. So this is what we
have right now. We have our camera set
up and we have our render view set up.
The first thing I like to do is to start
off with a backdrop. So by adding a
backdrop. So, you know, when you go to a
photo studio and you want to take a
photo of yourself, there's normally this
backdrop at the back of you just so that
you don't see the walls and you have a
nice backdrop behind you. So, we are
also going to do that here in 3D. And
the way to do that, shift a mesh. We can
add in a plane. So, this is just one way
of doing it. I'm going to show you
another way. And I'm going to go into
edit mode. We can just scale this up.
Then, I'm going to select this E and Z
extrude this up. And then you can Ctrl B
and bevel this. Okay, something like
this. And this is going to work. You can
just go back into object mode, right
click and shade this smooth. But I don't
really like to use this option because
if I just come in here and I lock this
and let me just say I was viewing it
from an angle like this. You can now see
that we see the edge of that plane. So
instead of using a plane like this, I'm
going to unlock this back. Instead of
using a plane, I'm going to use a
circle. So, I'm going to mesh and I'm
going to add in a circle right here. And
I'm going to go into edit mode. I'm
going to fill in this circle. And I'm
going to S to scale this up like this.
Okay. S to scale this up. And I'm going
to select these right here. Just these
ones right here. You can also select
these ones. And then I'm going to
extrude this up.
Okay. Something more like this. And then
these edges here. Ctrl B. We can bevel
this one. Ctrl B. We can bevel it.
Something like this.
Okay. And then I can shade this one
smooth. So this is going to work for the
backdrop. In my case, I just like to use
something more rounded like this.
However you decide to model your
backdrop is going to be completely fine.
Okay. Something I want to do here is
also to create a new collection just so
that we don't mix up the collection with
our character. So I'm going to just
hover over here, press C to create a new
collection. And let me turn on
screencast keys here. So just press C to
create a new collection. And this one
I'm going to name it render. So all our
render objects are going to be here. For
example, this backdrop, I'm going to
move it into the render collection. Also
our camera, I'm going to move it into
that render collection. And I'm just
going to rename this to backdrop.
Name that to backdrop. Okay, so this is
the backdrop that we have. Now we can go
ahead and we can start setting up our
threepoint lighting. We might need to
add a material to this backdrop. But
once you start adding in lights, then we
can go ahead and add that in. So let's
go ahead and let's start adding in some
lights. So like I mentioned, we're going
to be using the threepoint lighting. So
the first light that we mentioned is the
key light. Shift A lights. And we're
going to add in an area lights here. And
I'm just going to rename this. I'm going
to name this to lights_key.
And what I'm actually going to do here
under this render collection. I'm going
to create a new collection inside of
that render collection. So just select
it and press C to create a collection
inside of that collection. And this one
I'm going to name it to lights. And I'm
just going to add all my lights to that
collection. Okay. So this is our key
light. I'm going to bring it up here.
Remember the purpose of the key light is
going to be our main light and it's
going to create the shadows and define
the forms of our character. Okay, so
I'll just give this a moment here to
render. And also if you have hair on
your character, which you most likely
do, just go to the viewport amount and
then you can set this to a low value
just so that your view port is
responsive. I'm going to just take this
even lower. So 0.05
should be fine for now.
Okay. And we can come in here. We can
adjust the power of this light. I think
is too is not very bright now. So I'm
just going to increase this
to something like this. We don't want to
overblow it. You don't want to make it
overexposed. So I'm just going to bring
this something like this. And something
like that looks good. So, what I'm doing
with the lighting setup here with the
key light, I want to create shadows on
this other side of the face. So, I'm
just going to rotate this a little bit
more. See if I can create more of
shadows on the other side. And I'm just
positioning this. See if I can create
shadows on the other side of the face.
Okay. And something like this is going
to look good for now.
Okay. We can always come back to adjust
this if you want to. So that's going to
be our key lights. And like the way this
one is right now, I'm just going to
increase the brightness a little bit
more. We can always come back to adjust
this if we need to. So that's going to
be our key light. Let's add in another
light for the fuel light. So the fuel
light is going to fill in the shadows.
Shift A light. And let's add in an area
light. I'm going to rotate this one
here. And I'm just going to place it
right to this other side. So right now
you're going to notice that the fuel
lights has almost about the same
strength with our key light and that's
not what we want with the fuel light. If
I just zoom in here
now that I've added in that few light
you can just see how that makes the
whole render look flat. So with the fuel
light we want to reduce the power a lot
so that it doesn't take away our shadow.
It just makes the shadows less darker.
So I'm just going to bring this down
here. So this is without the few lights
and this is with the few light. So we
don't want it to be completely black.
We're just bringing up the shadows. I'm
just going to bring this down here. And
I'm also going to name [snorts] this
light lights
fill. Okay. Nice right there. I like
what this is looking like. And also
something I want to show you. If I scale
this up. So let me just hide this one
and I'm going to show you with this key
light. So if I scale this light down,
notice the shadows on this. It gets much
harsher or it gets much sharper. So alt
s I'm going to remove that scale. I'm
going to clear the scale. I'm going to
notice the shadows are much softer. So
depending on what you're going for, if
you want harsher shadows, you can scale
this down. That's also the same thing
here as coming to change the size here.
So you can scale it down or scale it up
depending on what you're going for. So,
I'm going to unhide the fuel light here.
And for the fuel light, I don't really
want it to cast shadows. So, I'm going
to scale up this one.
Okay. And I can increase the brightness
a little bit more.
Okay.
This is looking good around the face is
looking good. We definitely need to add
some more lights at the bottom here, and
that's fine for now. Let's just focus on
this top part for now. Okay. And the
last light that we're going to need for
the threepoint lighting setup is the rim
light. So shift a light and I'm going to
add in an area light here. I'm going to
rotate this. And remember lights at the
back of our character. And the purpose
of the ring light is to separate our
character from the background. So just
by adding that you can already see what
that does. So let me just hide this. You
can see our character is blending in a
little bit with the background. But if
we add in that rim light right there, it
starts to separate our character from
the background. And on the rim lights,
I'm going to increase the power up way
higher.
And on this rim light, I'm just going to
make it favor this side a little bit
more. So something that you can also do
on this side is just to S and X to scale
it down just so that it focus we focus
on one side instead of it scattering
throughout the whole back. Okay. So
something like this. I can also just
rotate it on the Z axis. And when
rotating this, remember when we're using
our RE, we change our transform
rotations to local. So at this point, we
can change it back to global. So we're
using the global transforms. And then R
and Z, I'm just going to rotate it just
so that it just touches just the side of
the character.
Okay. I also want to extend that rim
light down to make sure it touches the
leg this way. So I'm going to scale it
on the Z axis. I'm going to bring it
down right here so that it touches the
leg. I'm just going to rotate this a
little bit more.
Okay. I'm going to also scale this one
up. And I'm going to move it to
somewhere around here.
Okay. Something like this is starting to
look good. Right now, you're going to
notice because of this rim light that we
added in here, you're going to notice on
the backdrop, we have this harsh light
here. So the way that we can fix this is
with something called light linking and
this was added in newer versions of
Blender. I'm using Blender 5.0 right
now. So I have the light linking
feature. So I'm just going to select the
rim lights and let me rename this here
to light rim and I'm going to go to the
object data properties or the object
properties and under shading we have
this lights linking right here. Just
create a new collection and we are going
to drag and we're going to drop the
backdrop into this collection. So note
that I'm not selecting the backdrop
because if you select the backdrop that
collection is going to go. I'm going to
make sure that the rim light is
selected. Then I'm going to drag and I'm
going to drop the backdrop right there.
And I'm just going to right now only the
backdrop is being affected by this
light. But we can come here and we can
exclude the backdrop from being affected
by the light. And now we have something
that looks like this. Okay. Right now
I'm going to add in a color to my
background. So I'm just going to name
this backdrop.
And depending on your character, the
colors on your character, then you can
choosing a nice color for your own
scene. For me, I think I'll just go with
something dark like this.
Okay.
Something dark like this. And I don't
really want the backdrop to reflect any
light. I'm going to just turn off the
roughness.
Something like this. And I'm going to
also turn down the specular.
Okay. So, we have something that looks
like this. And also something that you
can do. Right now, we can see out of the
camera frame. We don't really want to do
that. So, I'm just going to press Ctrl
V. And I'm just going to select our
camera frame. And we are just going to
in this is only going to work in cycles.
So, Ctrl V just to box select the camera
frame just so that you just see what is
in the camera. If you're using Eevee,
you can come down here to camera, select
the camera, go under viewport display,
and this option here, you can just turn
this all the way up to one just so that
you don't see what's on the other side
or what's on the outside of the camera
frame. Okay. And this is also going to
help us set up the camera nicely. So,
I'm just going to move this camera into
a nice spot. So, something like this
is definitely going to work just fine.
Okay. So this is the basic threepoint
lighting setup right here. We are going
to start duplicating some of this light.
So this key lights I can duplicate for
this bottom right here cuz right now the
legs are way too dark. So I'm just going
to duplicate this and bring this down
here.
I'll go from the top view and I just
adjust the position of that. Okay. Now
you can see we are having a little bit
more light at the bottom there which is
definitely nice. I'm going to reduce the
I'm going to reduce the power here. And
something that we can also do just
select these two lights and then Ctrl L
to link these objects together. And we
are going to link their object data
together. So what that's going to do,
any change I make on this light here is
also going to be reflected on this light
because they have the same object data.
Okay. So I'm just going to reduce this
one down and it's going to reduce the
both of them. And somewhere around here
is looking good for that lighting. I'm
also going to duplicate another few
lights on this bottom side here. Just
that the shadows are not too dark. So
I'm going to come in here, duplicate
this light for the bottom.
Okay. So this is without, this is with
it. Okay. Nice. Filling in some of those
shadows that we created with the key
lights on the other side.
Okay. something like that. And then on
the rim lights, you can also add in
colors. So adding in colors on the rim
lights is going to make the rim lights
look a little bit better. So you can
depending on your character and the
colors that you have in your scene, you
can choose a nice rim light color right
here. I think something like a orange
red is going to work just fine for me.
I'm definitely going to play around with
this a lot more, but you can start to
get the idea of this. I'm going to just
adjust this fuel light a little bit.
Okay. And I'm just going to So something
you can do just to hide sometimes hide
some this few light and then just adjust
the area lights to make sure that you
actually like what you have. So right
now I'm not liking the shadows that
creating on the face. So I'm just going
to adjust this a little bit more.
Okay. So what this key light is doing
now is separating the face into half. So
we have left side and right side. I want
some of the light to fall on this other
side of the face. So, I'm just going to
bring this right here.
Okay. Something more like that.
Okay. Something more like that is going
to look good. And let me turn this one
back on. Yeah, that looks much better
than what we had before. Okay, that's
looking good for the key lights. And now
what I'm going to do, we are going to
add in some more additional lights. So
this is a three point lighting setup
done. We duplicated more lights than
three. So but you get the idea. We had
one, two, and three. And then we
duplicated some of these. But this is
still a key light. This still a few
lights. Okay. So I'm just going to add
uh some additional lights. Some
additional lights I like to add. I'm
going to press shift A. And then I'm
going to add in a point a point light
right here. And this one is going to be
I'm just going to rename this to light
backdrop.
So I'm going to add a light to the
backdrop. It's going to separate our
character a little bit more from the
camera. So on that point light, I'm just
going to make sure that that's selected.
I'm going to move this back. I'm just
going to make sure that it's directly
opposite of the camera. And I can
actually adjust it from this view here.
I'm just going to place it right behind
of our character. So this is without it.
This is with it. So you can see that the
way that's helping separate a character
a lot more from the background. This is
with without and then this is with it.
We can also change the color here to
something like this. I'm definitely
going to adjust this colors a little bit
more. So we have a lighting setup that
looks like this. And I can also increase
the power here.
Okay. Something like that. Right now
these shadows, we have these shadows
right here. So I just want to get rid of
them. So, what I'm going to do, I'm
going to duplicate this few light here
just to get rid of some of those shadows
on the backdrop right there. So, I'm
going to place this one off to the side
here.
And I can increase the part just to get
rid of some of the shadows that we have
there.
I'm going to bring this down closer to
the backdrop. Okay. So, this is without
that and this this is with it. Let me
just reduce
the strength a little bit. Okay. And
this is the threepoint lighting setup
done. So this is how you're going to
approach lighting your character with
the threepoint lighting setup. Let me
just select the hair here. And I'm going
to increase the hair display to full.
And I'm going to see what that looks
like. So I'll just give this a moment to
render.
Okay. So this is what it's looking like
for me in my case. So you might need to
definitely adjust the colors a bit more.
Play around with the light colors, with
the position of the light to get
something more of what you want. So I'm
just going to bring down my base color
here for the backdrop. And then
something I'm going to do is to add in a
hi just to add some ambient light to the
scene just so that everywhere is not too
dark. So right now we using this dark
color here. I'm just going to add in a
kind of a forest hiji just to bring up
the ambience on the scene. And a very
simple way that we can do that if you
use the poly haven add-on the lighting
and the texturing. At this stage, we can
add in some h. I'm just going to look
for some nature hij right here. Let me
give this a second to load. Okay. And we
have all these nature h. I can just drag
and drop this into the scene. Okay.
That's going to get rid of what we had
before. And with the HI, remember, we
don't want to completely use this. We
are just going to reduce the strength so
it doesn't overpower the lights that we
have.
Okay. So, this is with if you're using
the Poly Haven add-on. If you're not
using the Poly Haven add-on, let me just
switch it back. If you're not using the
Puly Haven add-on, you can go ahead and
download HR eyes and you can just come
in here, choose the environment texture,
and then you can open something that
you've downloaded. That's if you're not
using the Polyhaven add-on. But I highly
suggest that you get the Poly Haven
add-on, and you just use that cuz
already gives us some additional setup.
So if I need to rotate this, I can just
rotate it very easily from these sliders
right here. So this is what I have right
now. I'm going to reduce the strength of
that HDRI.
So, we are going to tweak this until we
are completely happy with what we have.
Depending on what you're going for,
you're going to need to tinker around
with this a lot more than I have done
right here. So, this is what I have for
the lighting. I'm happy with this, but
I'm definitely going to adjust this a
lot more after recording this. I'm not
going to stick with the threepoint
lighting setup. I'll go with some more
cinematic lighting styles for my final
renders. But this is just a basic
example of what you can do if you have
no idea of how to light your character.
All right. Once we are done with the
threepoint lighting setup, we can go
ahead and we can choose more camera
angles. So, I'm just going to close this
down here and we can choose more camera
angles. Let me just take this hair back
to view port display amount of 0.01.
Okay, just so that the view port is
responsive. And then we're going to
choose some other camera angle. So,
right now I'm going to name this camera
wide shot. So, this is the wide shot of
the character. I'm going to duplicate
this camera. This one is going to be
called camera_c close up. Okay. And I'm
going to make sure that that camera is
the active camera here. I'm going to go
and lock this. So just turn on the
gizmos here and you can lock this. And
then let's just switch or choose another
camera angle.
Okay. for our character.
Something like this for me is going to
work just fine. Definitely going to
choose more camera angles. But for you,
if you have no idea of any camera angles
to choose, I'll suggest a wide shot and
a close-up. You can also duplicate this.
So, just duplicate this camera and then
you can show off details like stuff that
you modeled like the shoes, the skirts,
and all that fun stuff. So, I'm just
going to stick with the close-up and
with the wide shots for now. I'm going
to choose some more camera angles later
on. So, this is the close-up and this is
the wide shot. So, those are the two
camera angles that I have. And once
you've chosen all your camera angles,
something that's also fun to render out
is a turntable animation. So, that's a
360°
turn around of your character. And the
way we are going to do that, I'm just
going to duplicate this camera wide
shot. So select that camera, duplicate
it, and escape just to leave it in the
same position. I'm going to rename this
to camera
turn around. Okay, so this is going to
be our turn around camera. And we want
this camera to go 360 round character.
And one of the easiest ways to do that
is to use an empty to control this
camera right here. So I'm going to shift
A. I'm going to add in an empty object
and I'm going to add in a sphere. Okay,
so this is not going to show up in the
render. So you don't need to worry about
that. This empty object right here, I'm
just going to move this into the render
collection. And I'm going to name this.
I'm just going to copy the name from
here. I'm going to name this camera
turnaround_tl.
It stands for control. So camera
turnaround control. It's going to
control our camera. So what we going to
do, we're going to parent our camera to
this empty. So that anytime this empty
rotates, our camera is also going to
follow that. So an easy way to parent
things inside of Blender. If I just
select this and I hold down shift and
hover over the camera turnar around
CTRL, I can easily parent it to that
camera. So now if I select the camera
turnar around control and I rotate this.
Okay, let me just make sure that this
camera is the active one. So if I rotate
this right here, you're going to notice
now we are going around our character.
Okay. So, we're going to go around the
character. We're going to lose a
problem. So, right now, once we get to
the back, the backdrop is obstructing
our camera. Also, if we get to an angle
like this, we also lose that lighting
setup that we just created. This is not
what we wanted to see for the lighting.
So, what we are going to do in this
case, I'm just going to alt arrow to
clear the rotation. I made there. All we
are going to do all our lights and also
the back. I'm just going to select those
and we're going to parent those to our
camera turn around control. Okay. So
that anytime the camera turn around
control moves these ones also move or
rotate with it. So just drag hold down
shift and then it's going to parent all
those objects right there. Now if I
select that turn around and I rotate
this.
Okay. You can see that is rotating
nicely. So anywhere we turn our
character to, our lighting setup is
still going to remain the same so that
we have consistent lighting whenever we
turn around to our character. So Alt R,
I'm just going to clear the rotation.
Now that we have the turntable and we
have chosen the shots that we want to
render out, now I'm going to walk you
through how I like to render out these
shots. So I'm just going to open up my
timeline here. I'm going to open up a
separate viewport here. I'm going to
elongate this and I'm going to change
this to my timeline. Okay. And on the
timeline here, on the first frame, I'm
going to bind this close-up render or
this close-up camera to this frame. And
the way you can do that, make sure that
this one is the active camera by making
sure that this is highlighted here. And
then hover over your timeline and then
press CtrlB to bind that camera, this
close-up camera to the first frame. So
anytime we are on this first frame, this
close-up camera is going to be the
active one. Now if we go to frame two,
we can bind this wide shot camera. Okay?
So hover over the timeline, Ctrl + B to
bind this camera wide shot to the second
frame. So if I'm on the first frame,
it's going to be the camera closeup. If
I go to the second frame, it's going to
be the camera wide shot. Depending on
how many angles you choose, you can bind
them to these different frames. But I
only have these two camera angles, so
that's fine for me. So from frame three,
I want my turn animation to start. So
I'm going to come down here. I'm going
to select that camera turn around and
I'm going to bind it to this right here.
I'm going to bind it to frame three
right here. So our turn around is going
to start from frame three. And depending
on how long we want to make our
turntable, let's just go ahead and let's
calculate it. So right now under the
outfit properties, our frame rate is
about 24 frames per second. And if you
wanted to make this 8 seconds, let me
just open up the calculator here. If you
wanted to make this 8 seconds, let's
time this 24 * 8. That's 192 frames. We
going to need 192 frames. And 8 seconds
is enough for a turntable. So, we're
going to need 192
frames. But remember that we are
starting from frame 3. So, we're going
to need 192 + 3. And this is going to be
our end frame, 195. So, I'm going to
change the end frame to 195.
Okay. And then on this first frame, we
can now animate this empty right here.
So, that this actually rotating. So, on
the first frame, I'm going to press K.
And I'm just going to insert animation
key frames for the rotation. And then if
I go to the last frame, you can use
shift and right arrow to go to the last
frame. On this last frame, we want this
empty to have made a complete 360°
rotation. So I'm going to R Z 360
and then enter and then I'm going to K.
I'm going to insert a rotation key frame
there. So if I go to the first frame,
you can see how that is animating really
really nicely. So our turnaround is
starting from frame three. If I just
move this to frame three and I play out
this animation. Let's just see what that
looks like.
Okay, so something like that is
definitely looking good. So from frame
three to frame 195 is our turntable
animation. We want to make sure to keep
that in mind. But remember that we also
binded this first frame and this second
frame to different cameras. We also want
to render those out. So I'm going to
start my animation timeline from frame
one and we are going to render all of
these out. So let me walk you through
the render settings I like to keep here.
So on the resolution we have already
changed this to 1200 by 1500 depending
on the platform you want to post to. You
can change this and then the resolution
scale. Right now this is a 1K image. You
can change this to a 4K image by
changing this to 200. But I'm just going
to keep it to 150. 150 is going to be
completely fine. is going to make the
image much more high resolution and with
150 we don't really need to use a lot of
render samples. So 150 is going to be
completely fine. Our frame rate is 24
frames per second. You can change that
to 30 but then also remember to increase
your timeline. Just use the calculator
and then do some calculation depending
on how long you want your animation to
be. Okay. So the frame range is going to
be completely fine. And the step you can
leave this at one. If you set this to
two, it's going to render out every
other frame. So, you just want to leave
this to one just so that we have a nice
smooth turn around. So, that's going to
be the frame range. And then under our
outfit, we are going to choose a folder
where we want to render out these
images. So, right now, we're going to be
rendering out images. And we going to
just go very simple. We are going to be
rendering PNGs. Okay? And these PGs, we
want them want to export them to a
particular folder. So, I can just come
in here. I'm going to go to where I keep
this project files and yeah, right here
I'm going to create a new folder here
and I'm just going to name this renders.
Okay, let's go into that folder and I'm
going to accept that. So all the images,
all these frames that we're going to be
rendering out here are going to be
stored in that folder. So just keep that
in mind. And those are the render
settings that we're going to change
under the output properties. Now let's
go to our render properties. We're going
to be using cycles to render this. If
you have a GPU, go ahead and use your
GPU. If not, you can use your CPU. And
then under the render max samples, we
can change this down to 200. 4,000 is a
bit too much. We can just change this
down to 200. Anywhere between 200 and
500 is going to work just fine. You can
even go lower depending on your
character. But since we have here, I
just want to keep this at somewhat of a
high value. Somewhere around 200,
between 500 is going to be fine. Okay.
so that this can render out at really
high quality. That's really everything
that we're going to change in the render
settings. I don't like to play with any
of these render settings here. When we
get to postprocessing, we are going to
cover most of that. So, these are just
the render settings that I like to
change right here. At this point, once
you binded your cameras to the different
frames and you have your turntable ready
to render, something I want you to do is
just to do some test renders. So, I'm
going to go up here to render and
instead of rendering out the animation
first, just do some test render. So, you
can go to just a random frame like this.
You can go up here to render, render
image, and then you just do a test
render because you might find that when
you render stuff out, you might need to
tweak some things. Just go to random
frames, do different test renders before
you actually render out the animation.
And I'm also going to point out that
rendering is not going to be linear. So
I'm just going to show you a project
that I worked on a while ago. So on this
project here, this is where I started
off. At this point, I already started
rendering even before posing. So this
was the first iteration. This was the
second iteration. I just want to point
out that rendering and lighting are not
a straightforward process. So you
probably have to render, you have to
tweak some things, then you have to
render again. So these are just some
different render passes that I went
through. I was experimenting with some
of these things you can see right here.
So I just kept on experimenting. I kept
on rening out different passes,
different passes until I got to
something that I liked, which was this
one right here. Okay. So you can still
see I needed to clean up the pool. But
this is where I'm happy with. So
rendering is not going to be completely
straightforward. It's going to be an
iterative process. So just always make
sure to keep that in mind when you're
rendering out. So make sure you do some
test renders first and then once you're
happy with that, you can go ahead and
you can render out the full animation.
Also keep in mind that rendering out the
animations is going to take a while
depending on the PC that you have. I
recommend that you leave it overnight to
render out. So go ahead, do those test
renders and render out a final
animation. And once you render out a
final animation, you have a folder that
looks like this. Depending on where you
stored your files, you have a folder
that looks like this. So for me, if I
just go back, remember that the first
two frames on my animation here were the
closeup and the wide shot and then my
turn table started from the third frame.
So right here, in case I had, so I've
not rendered out that character. This is
just an example. So these first two
frames are going to be my steel renders.
And then from here is going to be where
my animation is going to start. And
you're going to have an image sequence
that looks something like this. Now, to
compile this into a video, you can use
any video editing software. I'm going to
be using Dinci Resolve in this case. And
I'm just going to create a new project
right here. And I'm just going to name
this to something. You can name it to
anything. I'm just going to name it
turntable. Okay. And I'm going to create
a new project. So, depending on the
software that you're using. You might
need to just search up tutorials on how
to do this. But in the V resolve, I'm
just going to go to the media tab right
here. I'm going to drag and drop all
these images. So remember, I'm starting
from the third frame. I'm just going to
drag and drop all these images right
here. And by default, D resolve is going
to recognize that as an image sequence,
and it's going to drop in everything as
a video. So I'm just going to drag and
drop that into my media pool here. And
I'll go to the cut tab. I can bring that
into my timeline. And then you should
have a really nice and smooth animation.
Something just like this. So you're just
going to leave that play. And you can
you might spot some errors. You might
not spot some errors. Everything should
be good to go if you've done everything
right so far. So, you're going to have
an animation that looks like this. So,
for your animation, you also want to
make sure that you do some
post-processing. So, in that video
resolve, I can easily go into the color
tab and play around with these settings,
adding some nodes to do that. You can
look up tutorials on how to do that.
That's way beyond the scope of this
master class. So, that's how you're
going to approach doing it for videos.
You can also compile your image sequence
in Blender. You can decide to do it in
any software that you want. Capcot 2 I
believe can also do that. So just find
any video editing software and then
compile your image sequence into a video
and then you can export that out. So
when it comes to post processing for
steel images, this is my general
approach. So I'm just going to open up
the image in Photoshop and I like to
convert this into a smart object. I'm
just going to come here to filter and
I'm going to open up the camera raw
filter. So most of the editing is going
to happen in the camera raw filter and
I'm just going to briefly walk you
through the process I like to go
through. So once the camera raw filter
is open right here, I like to adjust
some of the settings. So you can just
come in here and basically we're just
going off what looks good. In my
opinion, postprocessing is going to be
what looks good for you. You can also
use a reference at this stage if you're
going for a particular style, but I'm
just going to go for what looks good for
me. So we can adjust the temperature
right here. You can also adjust the tint
depending on what you're going for. You
can reduce or increase the exposure.
And let me play around with the contrast
here. Okay. And you can also play around
with this highlight. So you can just
come in here, play around with these
sliders until it starts to look good to
you. Okay. So I can play around with
that with those basic sliders. Some
other sliders I like to play around with
are the color mixer. I can for some
particular colors I can increase the
saturation something like this. I can
increase the saturation on the magentas
right here. Also on the blues,
okay, something like that. So just play
around with these sliders. See if you're
making any changes to the image and then
go with something that looks good. So
the color mixer is another one that I
like to work with. And then the effects
here, I'm just going to turn off the
grain. I like to add in green on my
render just so that it feels like it's
actually coming from a camera lens and
it's not so perfect. So I'm just going
to add in some green right here. And I
also like to add in some vignetting.
Okay, so just play around with these
sliders here. This is the before. This
is the after. You can already see the
massive difference that that makes. So
you want to make sure not to neglect the
post-processing stage. Okay, you want to
make sure that you have the
post-processing stage looking good. So,
I'm just going to okay this and give
this a second to load here. So, at this
point, you want to go ahead and you want
to do some post-processing on your final
renders. I'm also going to go ahead and
render out the final images of my
character with a different lighting
setup and with the finished process
renders that I have made. So, I'm just
going to show you my final renders right
now.
>> 
>> All right. So, that brings us to the end
of the stylized character master class.
At this point, if you've made it this
far, I just want to say congratulations
to you because most people who started
this master class, you will never get to
this point,  unfortunately. But,
they won't get to this point. So, if
you've gotten to this point so far and
you've been able to work on your own
character, kudos to you for doing that.
At this point, you now understand the
entire pipeline for creating a stylized
3D character from scratch. And honestly,
my biggest goal with this master class
was to show you that creating 3D
characters is actually not impossible.
It's very possible if you have the right
resources. So, now that you've gotten
here, I want to invite you to join the
stylized character academy. If you're
someone you know that you can get better
from where you are in your character
creation skills or you want to get good
enough to be hired in the industry or
you just want to master completely the
entire character creation process so
that you have the freedom to create and
tell your own story without feeling
overwhelmed in every step of the process
then I created the stylish character
academy for someone like you and I want
you to check this out.
I'm going to show you how you can create
your own 3D characters 
and finally bring the stories and ideas
in your head to life without getting
 stuck on every step of the
process or wasting time trying to find
the right tutorials. I've learned how to
consistently create my own 
characters, work on my own animation
projects, and consistently get hired as
a 3D character artist.  And I've
also helped other artists create their
first character from start to finish
without  them having much
experience. Like one of my students,
Isabella, she was able to create this
character in just a couple months of us
working together, and she was new to
Blender  and character creation
in general. So, you don't need to be an
expert in Blender to create your first
 character. You've tried learning
on your own and you know how that cycle
goes. You're constantly trying to find
the right tutorials. You stop working on
your characters  halfway because
you're not happy with the way it looks.
You're not even sure of the next steps
that you  need to take to finish
your character and everything starts to
feel overwhelming and then you give up
on  your projects. The way we
solve this in the stylish character
academy, you don't just get a course
where you have to follow without knowing
what you're doing. It's a completely
guided mentorship program and based on
your specific goals,  you get
your own personalized road map to help
you create your first character and
master all the steps  involved in
creating characters. In the first 90
days of you joining, you create 
your first character from start to
finish. And the way we are going to do
that is through weekly 
one-on-one coaching sessions with me
where I'm going to show you exactly how
to go about creating your own
characters. 
There will also be weekly Q&A calls
where you can ask your questions, get
feedback and clarity on each step of the
character creation process. You also
 have access to a private Discord
where you can share your progress, get
critique on your work, and also stay
accountable.  And of course,
you're going to get access to the
stylish character masterass, a complete
 library of video lessons where I
share everything I know about creating
characters to support the one-on-one
coaching. So, just visualize this for
the next character you want to work on.
You know exactly  the steps that
you need to take. You're not abandoning
your character halfway because this time
you're actually able to create your
character from start  to finish.
and you're finally able to translate the
exact idea you had in your mind into
your own final character. 
If that sounds like something you would
like to do, here's how to join the
stylish character academy. Scroll below
this video and book a time to 
chat with me and also fill out the
application form. On that call, we'll
chat about where you're currently at and
what your  specific goals are.
From there, I will let you know if the
stylish academy is the right fit for
you. And if it is, I'll  walk you
through the next steps to get started.
So, book a time to chat and I'll see you
inside the stylish cartr academy. Let's
go.
